[MIGRATED TO RTM_PART_80.md & RTM_PART_99.md - CURTAIN WALL NESTING]
[MIGRATED TO RTM_PART_80.md - CURTAIN WALL DETAILS]
[MIGRATED TO RTM_PART_53.md - CURTAIN WALLS]
project requirements, and define new materials. For more information about materials and how to define them, see Materials on page 871. 
Creating Tools from Curtain Wall Styles 
You can create a curtain wall tool from any curtain wall style. You can drag the style from the Style Manager onto a tool palette. You can then specify settings for any curtain wall properties for the tool. For more information, see Creating a Curtain Wall Tool on page 1419. 
To create, edit, copy, or purge styles, you access the Style Manager. The Style Manager provides a central location in AutoCAD Architecture to work with styles from multiple drawings and templates. For more information about using the Style Manager, see Style Manager Overview on page 856. 
Process Overview: Creating a Curtain Wall Style 
When you create a curtain wall style, you assign characteristics to any or all elements of a curtain wall and save them as a named style. In this way, you standardize the appearance of all curtain walls that use the style. When you modify a style, all curtain walls in your drawing that use the style are updated to reflect the changes. 
1 Define divisions for the curtain wall grid. For information on defining curtain wall grid definitions, see Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Grids on page 1428. 
2 Define the infill for the cells of the curtain wall. For information on creating infills, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
3 Define the curtain wall frame, including using profiles and specifying 
offsets. For information on defining a frame for a curtain wall, see Defining Curtain Wall Frames on page 1447. 
4 Define the mullions for the curtain wall, including using profiles and 
specifying offsets. For information on ways to define mullions, see Defining Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1454. 
5 Assign the element definitions you created: 
If you want to assign … Then … 
a division to a curtain wall grid see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
infills to curtain wall cells see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
definitions to curtain wall frames see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames on page 1475. 
definitions to curtain wall mullions see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1478. 
6 Specify the materials of the curtain wall style. For information on specifying materials, see Specifying the Materials of a Curtain Wall Style on page 1482. 
7 Specify the display properties of the curtain wall, including layer, color, 
linetype, and hatching. For information on specifying the display properties of a curtain wall, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
8 Attach notes and reference documents to the curtain wall style. For information on attaching notes and files, see Attaching Notes and Files to a Curtain Wall Style on page 1491. 
Tips for Working Efficiently with Curtain Wall Styles 
Use these suggestions to work efficiently and productively with curtain wall styles: 
¦ 
Name grids and elements very clearly to identify where they are used and what they are. For example, use the name L3-FL1-H to represent a third-level grid used on the first floor and which has a horizontal division. 

¦ 
Use the element definition that is applied most often as the default element definition. For example, if most cells are stone panels, define the default infill as the stone panel. This panel is then used in every cell that is not specifically assigned to another infill. Apply this rule to the default frame, mullion, and division. 


¦ 
Use curtain wall units and door and window assemblies to simplify the complexity of a curtain wall style. 

¦ 
Name the styles for doors, windows, curtain wall units, AEC polygons, and curtain walls to indicate where they are used and what they are. 

¦ 
Use cell and edge overrides to define special conditions not accounted for in the curtain wall style. 


Creating Element Definitions for a Curtain Wall Style 
Element definitions determine the appearance of the four basic curtain wall elements. There is a different definition type for each element. 
Curtain wall grid element types 

Each type of element can have multiple definitions. For example, you can define a division to create a horizontal grid or a vertical grid, and you can define the cells to contain a nested grid or a door/window assembly. To make reuse easier, you can save the element definitions, and then assign them to grids, cells, frames, or mullions as needed. 
Element definitions are style-specific. When you create element definitions for a specific curtain wall style, those definitions are available only for curtain walls of that style. For example, if you define a door and window assembly infill for one curtain wall style, that infill is not available as an option when you edit a curtain wall of a different style. 
When you create a new element definition, like a new grid division, a new frame, cell infill, or mullion, you need to define a display component for this element in order to control the visual appearance (layer, color, and linetype properties) of this element separately from the other elements. For example, if you have defined a new panel infill, and want to assign a concrete gray color to that, you need to define a display component for the new infill, and assign it a grey color. For information on defining display components for elements, see Adding Curtain Wall Element Definitions as Display Components on page 1485. If you do not define a display component for a new element, its display will be controlled by the display component of the default element of that type. For example, if you have a new panel infill, but do not define a display component for it, then its display is controlled by the default infill display component. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to create a curtain wall style. You can create a style using default style properties or by copying an existing style. After you create the style, you edit the style properties to customize the characteristics of the style. You can also create a curtain wall tool based on the newly created curtain wall style. When you use the tool to add curtain walls, each curtain wall has the style specific to the tool. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Create a new curtain wall style: 
If you want to create a style … Then … 
with default properties right-click Curtain Wall Styles, and click New. 
from an existing style right-click the curtain wall style you want to copy, and click Copy. Right-click, and click Paste. 
from a curtain wall, curtain wall  right-click Curtain Wall Styles, and  
unit, or door and window assembly  click New. Right-click the new style,  
in the drawing  click Set From, and then select a  
curtain wall, a curtain wall unit, or  
a door and window assembly in the  
drawing.  

4 If necessary, right-click the style again, and click Rename to enter a descriptive name for the new curtain wall style. 
5 Edit the new curtain wall style: 
If you want to … Then … 
define the elements of a curtain wall  see Defining Divisions for Curtain  
style  Wall Grids on page 1428, Defining  
Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page  
1441, Defining Curtain Wall Frames  
on page 1447, and Defining Curtain  
Wall Mullions on page 1454.  

assign element definitions to the curtain wall style 
see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Elements on page 1461, Assign­
ing a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462, Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463, As­
signing Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames on page 1475, and Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions 
on page 1478. 
add curtain wall element definitions see Adding Curtain Wall Element as display components Definitions as Display Components on page 1485. 
specify layer, color and linetype see Specifying the Layer, Color, and settings for the display components Linetype of a Curtain Wall Style on of a curtain wall page 1486. 
specify curtain wall hatching see Specifying the Hatching for 
Components of a Curtain Wall Style 
on page 1487. 
add custom graphics as display see Adding Custom Graphics as a components of a curtain wall style Display Component of a Curtain Wall on page 1488. 
create individual cut planes for cur-see Creating Cut Planes for a Cur­
tain wall styles tain Wall on page 1490. 
specify the materials of the curtain see Specifying the Materials of a wall style Curtain Wall Style on page 1482. 
If you want to … Then … 
add notes and files to the style see Attaching Notes and Files to a Curtain Wall Style on page 1491. 
6 When you finish specifying the properties of the curtain wall style, click OK. 
7 If you want to assign the style to a curtain wall tool, drag the style 
from the Style Manager to a tool palette. You can later rename the tool and specify other properties for it as described in Creating a Curtain Wall Tool on page 1419. 
8 Click OK. 
Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Grids 
The divisions of a grid define the orientation that determines the direction of the grid cells and mullions, and they define a division type that determines the number and size of cells. 
NOTE Creating a nested grid is not a division rule. To create a nested grid, add a cell assignment. For more information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall on page 1466 and Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
You can create a variety of division definitions under different names, and then assign different divisions to each grid in your curtain wall. Although you can create multiple definitions, there can be only one division assignment per grid. You create division definitions for a specific curtain wall style and those definitions can be assigned only to grids in curtain walls of that style. 
For more information about assigning divisions to a particular grid, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Division of Curtain Wall Grids 
A curtain wall consists of one or more grids, which are the framework for placing design elements in the curtain wall. The highest-level grid is the primary grid, which is also the outside edge of the curtain wall. 
Each grid in a curtain wall has one division assignment that determines whether the grid is divided horizontally or vertically. The division also determines the number of cells, their size, and their placement. 
Within the primary grid, you can define multiple levels of grids. These grids within the primary grid are called nested grids. Each subdivision of a grid is called a cell. 

Creating a Division Definition for a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to create divisions for a curtain wall grid. 
Because curtain walls can contain multiple nested grids, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grids that indicates the level of each grid and the grid location or the purpose within the curtain wall. For example, L2-FL1-Stone Panels can identify a secondary grid that provides a row of stone panels on Floor 1. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 
6 Click New Division ( 
). 7 Enter a name for this division definition. 
8 Select either Vertical orientation 
or Horizontal orientation . 9 Select one of the following division types and specify offsets if needed. 

Division Type Description 
Fixed Cell Dimension Creates a grid where the size of the individual cells is fixed at a user-defined size. For more information, see Specifying a Division with a Fixed Cell Size on page 1431. 
Fixed Number of Cells Creates a grid where the number of grid cells is fixed at a user-defined cell number. For more in­formation, see Specifying a Division with a Fixed Cell Number on page 1434. 
Manual Creates a grid where the size and number of individual cells is manu­ally determined by the user. For more information, see Specifying a Division with Manually Defined Cells on page 1435. 
Baseline/ Base Height (horizontal  Creates a horizontal grid that does  
grids only)  not extend to gables or steps in a  
curtain wall. For more information,  
see Excluding Gables and Steps  
from a Curtain Wall Grid on page  
1436.  

Polyline (vertical grids only) Creates a vertical grid from a poly­line that adds a grid line for each vertex of the polyline. For more in­formation, see Dividing a Vertical Curtain Wall Grid at Each Vertex Along a Polyline on page 1438. 
After you create a division definition, you can assign the definition to a specific grid in a curtain wall. For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
10 When you are finished creating division definitions, click OK. 
Specifying a Division with a Fixed Cell Size 
Use this procedure to define a division that has a fixed size for the cells contained in it. In this case, the number of cells is determined by the length or height of the grid, depending on the grid orientation. 
When you specify a fixed cell size in a grid division, you can control how the cells of the grid adjust to accommodate any leftover space. This space occurs if the length (or the height) of the curtain wall cannot be evenly divided by the fixed size of the cell. 
Specifying a fixed size for cells 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Divisions definition or create a new one. 
7 Under Division Type, select Fixed Cell Dimension. 

8 Under Cell Dimension, specify a size for the cells. If you are defining a vertical division, the cell dimension is the length of the cell from mullion to mullion. If you are defining a horizontal division, the cell dimension is the height of the cell. 
9 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance in Start Offset/Top Offset or End Offset/Bottom Offset. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1439. 
TIP The frame width is calculated as part of the cell size. Therefore, cells adjacent to the frame can appear to be a different size than the other cells. If you do not want the frame width included in the cell size, specify an offset for the grid that is equal to the frame width. 
When you draw a curtain wall using a fixed cell dimension, there is often extra space between the last full-size cell and the end of the curtain wall. 
10 Adjust the cells to accommodate this extra space: 
If you want to … Then … 
add the space to grid cells select Auto-Adjust Cells, select Grow for Cell Adjustment, and select the specific cells where the space is to be added. You can select any com­bination of Specific Cells. 
remove the space from grid cells select Auto-Adjust Cells, select Shrink for Cell Adjustment, and se­lect the specific cells where the space is to be removed. You can 
If you want to … Then … 
select any combination of Specific Cells. 
11 Under Specific Cells, select the cells where the space is to be added or removed. You have the following options: 
¦ Start of curtain wall ( 
): For a vertical division, you can add or remove extraneous space from the start cell of the curtain wall. The start cell is determined by the drawing direction of the curtain wall. 
¦ Vertical middle of curtain wall ( 
): If the curtain wall has an uneven number of vertical cells, the middle cell is grown or shrunk. If the curtain wall has a an even number of vertical cells, the two middle cells are grown or shrunk. 
¦ End of curtain wall ( 
): For a vertical division, you can add or remove extraneous space from the end cell of the curtain wall. The end cell is determined by the drawing direction of the curtain wall. 
¦ Top of curtain wall ( 
): For a horizontal division, you can add or remove extraneous space from the top cell of the curtain wall. 
¦ Horizontal middle of curtain wall ( 
): If the curtain wall has an uneven number of horizontal cells, the middle cell is grown or shrunk. If the curtain wall has a an even number of horizontal cells, the two middle cells are grown or shrunk. 
¦ Bottom of curtain wall ( 
): For a horizontal division, you can add or remove extraneous space from the bottom cell of the curtain wall. 

You can select multiple options here; for example, you can select to add additional space to the start and end cells, or to the start, middle, and end cells. 
12 Click OK. 
As the next step, you will assign the division definition to a grid in a curtain wall style. For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Specifying a Division with a Fixed Cell Number 
Use this procedure to define a specific number of cells in a grid. In this case, the size of the cells is determined by the length or height of the grid, depending on how the grid is divided. 
In some cases, when you create a complex curtain wall grid, you might want to start with a standard grid with a fixed number of cells, and then later fine-tune that manually. You can first create a grid with fixed cell numbers and then convert that to a manual grid. For information on manual grids, see Specifying a Division with Manually Defined Cells on page 1435. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Under Division Type, select Fixed Number of Cells. 8 Specify the number of cells. 9 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance for Start 
Offset or End Offset. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1439. 
NOTE If you want to fine-tune the initial layout with a fixed number of cells, click Convert To Manual Division and edit the grid as described in Specifying a Division with Manually Defined Cells on page 1435. 
10 Click OK. 
For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Specifying a Division with Manually Defined Cells 
Use this procedure to manually add gridlines and specify an offset for each one when you need to create a unique grid that does not fit into any of the other division types. You can also start with a fixed cell dimension grid or a fixed number of cells grid, and then manually adjust the grid lines to suit your needs. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Select Manual for Division Type. 8 Click Add Gridline to insert a grid line. Insert as many grid lines 
as you need. If you need to remove a grid line, select it from the table and click Remove Gridline. 9 Under Offset in the gridline table, specify an offset distance for each grid line. 
Gridline offset 

10 Under From in the grid line table, select the grid location from which the grid line is offset. 
Offset grid line from option 

11 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance for Start 
Offset or End Offset. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1439. 
12 Click OK. For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Excluding Gables and Steps from a Curtain Wall Grid 
If you are designing a curtain wall that has gables in the roof line or steps in the floor line, there may be occasions when you do not want the grid to extend into those areas. To define your curtain wall in this case, you can define a single-cell horizontal grid that excludes those areas, and then use that grid as a starting point for nested grids. For information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
NOTE For information about adding steps or gables to your curtain wall, see Changing the Roof Line and the Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1542. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Select Horizontal for Orientation. 8 Select Baseline/Base Height for Division Type. 
9 Select Divide at Baseline or Divide at Base Height. 
¦ 
Divide at Baseline: Forces a division at the baseline to exclude steps from the grid. 

¦ 
Divide at Base Height: Forces a division at the base height to exclude gables from the grid. 




10 To offset the division from the baseline, enter a positive number for Baseline Offset. 11 To offset the division from the base height, enter a positive number for Base Height Offset. 12 Click OK. 
The resulting grid contains a single, horizontal cell. To add additional divisions, use nested grids. For more information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall on page 1466. 
For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Dividing a Vertical Curtain Wall Grid at Each Vertex Along a 
Polyline 
If you create a curtain wall by referencing a polyline, you can define a vertical grid for your curtain wall by placing grid lines at each vertex along the polyline. 
1 Draw a polyline and use it as a reference curve to create a curtain 
wall. For more information, see Creating a Curtain Wall that References a Curve on page 1412. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 4 Select a curtain wall style. 5 Click the Design Rules tab. 6 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 7 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 8 Select Vertical for Orientation. 9 Select Polyline for Division Type. 

10 Click OK. 
For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Grid 
By default, grids cells are measured from the start and end points of the curtain wall baseline (for horizontal divisions) or from the floor line to the roof line (for vertical divisions). The width of the grid frame is not considered in calculating the size of the cell. For example, if you draw a curtain wall with a 14' baseline and a 1' frame on the left and right, and you specify a fixed number of vertical cells, the cells do not appear equal in size. The first and last cells appear smaller because they include the frame. To make the cells equal in size, offset the start and end of the grid by the width of the frame. 
Specifying grid offset directions 

NOTE You can offset the grid only when the division type is Fixed Cell Dimension, Fixed Number of Cells, or Manual. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Select Fixed Cell Dimension, Fixed Number of Cells, or Manual 
for Division Type. 
8 Specify an offset for the grid. 
If you want to specify the dis-Then … tance between … 
the start point of the curtain wall enter a value for Start Offset. baseline and the start of the first cell in a horizontal grid 
the end point of the curtain wall enter a value for End Offset. baseline and the end of the last cell in a horizontal grid 
the floor line of the curtain wall and enter a value for Bottom Offset. the start of the bottom cell in a vertical grid 
the roof line of the curtain wall and enter a value for Top Offset. the end of the top cell in a vertical grid 
9 Click OK. 
Removing a Division Definition from a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to remove a division definition that you no longer need. You cannot remove a division definition when it is currently assigned to a grid. In addition, you cannot remove the default division definition, but you can modify it. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition that you want to remove. 
7 Click Remove. 

8 Click OK. 
Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells 
An infill defines the contents of a curtain wall cell. A curtain wall cell can have the default simple panel or contain a nested grid, an AEC Polygon, curtain wall unit, door, window, or door/window assembly style. The object styles you use in infills must exist in the current drawing to be added to an infill definition. Panels typically represent glazing or other plain cladding, such as stone or concrete. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
Specifying different infills 

NOTE Nested grids and no infill are options you select when assigning an infill to a cell. These options do not require infill definitions. For more information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall on page 1466 and Removing an Infill from a Curtain Wall Cell on page 1472. 
You can define as many infills as you need, and then use cell assignments to specify the cells that use each infill. You can modify, as needed, a default infill 
that is used for all unassigned cells. For more information about cell assignments, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Elements on page 1461. 
NOTE Create infill definitions for a specific curtain wall style. Those definitions can be assigned only to grid cells in curtain walls of that style. 
Materials 
Styles use the materials of the object style assigned to each panel. For example, if you specify an infill to use the Standard door style, the materials of that infill are those designated in the door style. Simple Panels need material assigned in the curtain wall style. 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of infills, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default infill are applied to all infills unless you create a custom display component for each infill definition. You can then control the display of each infill definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
Creating a Panel Infill for a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to create a simple panel infill to represent basic cladding materials in the curtain wall, such as a stone wall panel, concrete panel, metal panel, or glazing infill. 
Because curtain walls can contain multiple infills, it is helpful to use a naming convention for panel infills that indicates the infill location or purpose within the curtain wall. For example, L3-FL1- Stone Panel can identify a stone panel in a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Infill. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the infill. 8 Select Simple Panel as the infill type. 9 Specify an alignment for the infill. 
For more information, see Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1444. 
10 Specify an offset for the infill. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1445. 
11 Specify a thickness for the panel. Specifying infill panel thickness 

12 Click OK. 
After you create an infill definition, you can assign it to any cell in a curtain wall grid. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
Creating a Style Infill for a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to create a style infill to insert objects into a curtain wall. You can insert doors, windows, door/window assemblies, curtain wall units, and AEC Polygons by defining a specific style of that object as an infill. 
TIP After you insert an object in a cell, you can select that object independent of the grid and access editing options for the object. 
Because curtain walls can contain multiple object styles, it is helpful to use a naming convention for style infills that indicates the infill location or purpose within the curtain wall. For example, L3-FL1-Octagonal Window can identify an octagonal window in a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Infill. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the infill. 8 Select Style as the infill type. 
The bottom right pane changes to display a tree view of the object styles available for insertion into a curtain wall. 
9 Select an object style. There is a unique icon for each type of style, for example the door 
style icon 
and the curtain wall unit icon 
. These icons are also displayed next to the infill name at the top of the dialog box to help you identify the type of infill. 
10 Specify an alignment for the infill. For more information, see the next section Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1444. 
11 Specify an offset for the infill. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1445. 
12 Click OK. 
After you create an infill definition, you can assign it to any cell in a curtain wall grid. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Infill 
Use this procedure to align an infill so that it is centered with the baseline of the curtain wall, in front of the baseline, or behind the baseline. In Plan view, the front of a curtain wall (drawn from left to right) is below the baseline and the back is above the baseline. 
NOTE To move the infill away from the baseline, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1445. 
Specifying infill alignments 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Select an infill, or create a new one. 7 Select an alignment: front, center, or back. 8 Click OK. 
Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Infill 
Use this procedure to specify an offset for a curtain wall infill. By default, infills are centered on the curtain wall baseline. If your design requires that the infill be aligned with frame edges or some other part of the curtain wall, you can specify an offset for the infill. 
You can also edit individual style-based infills directly in the drawing. The selected infill has Flip grips in both the X and Y directions so that you can change the orientation of the infill. 
Specifying panel infill offsets 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Select an infill, or create a new one. 7 Enter an offset distance. 
In Plan view, positive numbers offset the infill above the baseline and negative numbers offset the infill below the baseline. The offset is also affected by the selected alignment for the infill. 
8 Click OK. 
Removing an Infill Definition from a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to delete an infill definition that you no longer need from the Infills definitions list. You cannot remove an infill definition when it is currently assigned to a cell. In addition, you cannot remove the default infill definition, but you can modify it as needed. 
NOTE For information about removing an infill from a cell, see Removing an Infill from a Curtain Wall Cell on page 1472. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded infill definition, and click Remove. 

7 Click OK. 
Defining Curtain Wall Frames 
All curtain wall grids, including the primary grid, can have frame definitions. The frame of the primary grid defines the outer edges of the curtain wall. The overall frame size is determined by the length and height of the primary curtain wall grid or a nested curtain wall grid. You can define a frame by specifying a width and depth or by selecting a profile. 
Specifying default and profile-based frames 

You create frame definitions for a specific curtain wall style. Those definitions can be assigned only to frames in curtain walls of that style. You can create as many frame definitions as you want, and then assign the definitions to the frames as needed. If you have nested grids, each grid has its own frame. There is a default frame definition that you can modify and assign as needed. Unassigned frames are not displayed. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames on page 1475. 
TIP Using Style Manager, you can copy a mullion definition and use it as a frame definition. Select the mullion definition and drag it to Frames in the left pane of the Design Rules tab. 
Materials and Display Properties for Frames 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of frames, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default frame are applied to all frames unless you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each frame definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Frame by Width and Depth 
You can define a frame by specifying its width and depth. The overall frame size is determined by the length and height of the curtain wall grid. 
Specifying frame width and depth 

Because curtain walls can contain multiple object styles with different frames, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grid frames that indicates the grid location or purpose within the curtain wall. For example, L3-FL1- Metal Frame can identify a metal frame for a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
TIP To remove the frame edge and have the infill adjust to fill the space occupied by the frame, create a frame definition with both width and depth set to zero. Then, assign that definition to the frame edge that you want to remove. This is necessary for the infill to be mitered as it would be for a butt-glazed condition. For more information, see Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall on page 1476. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 
6 Click 
to create a new frame definition. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the frame. 8 Specify a width and depth for the frame. 9 Specify any offsets. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall Frame on page 1452. 
10 Click OK. 
After you create a frame definition, you can assign it to any frame in a curtain wall. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames on page 1475. 
Creating a Profile for a Curtain Wall Frame 
Use this procedure to create a profile that you can use to define the shape of a curtain wall frame. You can then extrude the profile to create a curtain wall frame. 
The height and the width of the polyline you use to create the profile define the default height and width of the curtain wall frame. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
1 Draw a closed polyline of the height and the depth needed for the resulting curtain wall frame. 
2 Select the polyline, right-click, and click Convert to . Profile Definition. 
3 Enter c (Centroid) for the insertion point of the profile. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
4 Enter a name for the profile, and click OK. You can now use the profile as a curtain wall frame. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Frame Using a Profile on page 1450. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Frame Using a Profile 
Use this procedure to create a frame element definition from a profile. If you do not want a straight edge to your frame, you can use a profile to define edges with curves, jags, or any other shape you require. 
You can also use an edit in-place routine to create a frame from a profile. For more information, see Creating a Frame or Mullion Edge from a Polyline or Profile Using In-Place Editing on page 1506. 
Two profile-based frame examples 

NOTE The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
1 Create the profile for the frame. For information on creating profiles for curtain wall frames, see Creating a Profile for a Curtain Wall Frame on page 1450. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 4 Select a curtain wall style. 5 Click the Design Rules tab. 6 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 7 Click New Frame. 8 Enter a descriptive name for the frame. 9 Specify a width and depth for the frame edge. 
These dimensions are used to calculate the center point of the edge for aligning the profile and also to specify a boundary for the adjacent infill. 
10 Select Use Profile. 
NOTE The Profile options are available only if you have profiles in the current drawing. 
11 Select a profile from the list. By default, the profile is inserted using the same width and depth with which it was created. 
12 To adjust the size of the profile to fit within the width or depth dimension of the frame edge, select Auto-Adjust Profile Width or Depth. 
13 To mirror the profile, select to mirror along the X or Y axis. 14 To rotate the profile, specify an angle for Rotation. 
15 Specify any offsets. For more information, see Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall Frame on page 1452. 
16 Click OK. 
After you create a frame definition, you can assign it to any frame in a curtain wall. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames on page 1475. 
Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall Frame 
Use this procedure to define the distance that a curtain wall frame is from the floor line, roof line, or baseline. By default, the outside edges of the frame align with the start and end of the floor line and the start and end of the roof line. When you adjust the width of the frame, the frame expands inward. However, you can use offsets to expand or contract the frame away from these default limits or to shift the frame away from the baseline in either the X or Y direction. 
Offset Description 
X Positive X offset moves the frame edge outward beyond the end of the curtain wall, while a negative X offset moves the frame edge inward toward the center of the curtain wall. 
Y In Plan view, a positive Y offset moves the frame edge above the baseline, while a negative Y offset moves the frame below the baseline. 
Start Negative Start offset lengthens the frame beyond the start point, while a positive Start offset shortens the frame. The start point for vertical edges is the baseline, and the start point for horizontal edges (drawn left to right) is the left side. 
End Negative End offset lengthens the frame beyond the end point, while a positive End offset shortens the frame. The end point for vertical edges is the base height, and 
Offset Description 
the end point for horizontal edges (drawn left to right) is the right side. 
Specifying frame offsets in the x and y directions 

TIP To quickly identify the start and end of a curtain wall, select the curtain wall. The Reverse Direction grip is displayed near the center of the curtain wall and points toward the end of the curtain wall. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 6 Select a frame definition from the list. 7 Specify an offset distance for the frame edge. 8 Click OK. 
Removing a Frame Definition from a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to remove a frame definition from the Frame definitions list. You cannot remove a frame definition if it is currently assigned to a frame edge, but you can remove it if it is assigned as an override to a frame edge. In addition, you cannot remove the default frame definition, but you can modify it as needed. 
NOTE For information about removing a frame edge, see Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall on page 1476. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded frame definition. 7 Click Remove Frame. 8 Click OK. 
Defining Curtain Wall Mullions 
All curtain wall grids, including the primary grid, can have mullion definitions. The mullion of the primary grid defines the outer edges of the curtain wall. You can define the mullions by specifying a width and depth or by selecting a profile from which the mullion is extruded. 
Because curtain walls can contain multiple nested grids with different mullions, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grid mullions that indicates the level of each grid and the grid location or purpose within the curtain wall. For example, L3-FL1-Window Mullion can identify a mullion for a window in a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
Specifying default and profile-based mullions 

You create mullion definitions for a specific curtain wall style and those definitions can be assigned only to mullions in curtain walls of that style. You can create as many mullion definitions as you want, and then assign the definitions to mullions as needed. If you have nested grids, each grid has its own mullions. There is a default mullion definition that you can modify as needed that is used for any unassigned mullions. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1478. 
TIP Using Style Manager, you can copy a frame definition and use it as a mullion definition. Select the frame definition and drag it to Mullions in the left pane of the Design Rules tab. 
Materials and Display Properties for Mullions 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of mullions, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default mullion are applied to all mullions unless you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each mullion definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
Defining Curtain Wall Mullions by Width and Depth 
You can define mullions by specifying a width and a depth. 
Specifying mullion width and depth 

TIP To remove mullions for butt glazing, create a definition with both width and depth set to zero. Then, assign that definition to the mullions that you want to remove. For more information, see Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1481. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Mullion. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the mullion. 8 Specify a width and depth for the mullion. 9 Specify the offsets you want. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall on page 1459. 
10 Click OK. 
After you create a mullion definition, you can assign it to any mullion in a curtain wall. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1478. 
Creating a Profile for Curtain Wall Mullions 
Use this procedure to create a profile that you can use to define the shape of a curtain wall mullion definition. You can then extrude the profile to create mullions from it. 
The height and the width of the polyline you use to create the profile define the default height and width of the curtain wall mullion. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
1 Draw a closed polyline of the height and the depth needed for the resulting curtain wall mullion. 
2 Select the polyline, right-click, and click Convert to . Profile Definition. 
3 Enter c (Centroid) for the insertion point of the profile. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
4 Enter a name for the profile, and click OK. You can now use the profile as a curtain wall mullion. For more information, see Defining the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Using a Profile on page 1457. 
Defining the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Using a Profile 
Use this procedure to create a mullion element definition from a profile. If you do not want a straight edge to your mullions, you can use a profile to define mullions with curves, jags, or any other shape. 
You can also use an edit in-place routine to create a mullion from a profile. For more information, see Creating a Frame or Mullion Edge from a Polyline or Profile Using In-Place Editing on page 1506. 
NOTE The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
Infill alignments with default and profile-based mullions 

1 Create the profile to use for the mullion. For information, see Creating a Profile for Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1457. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 4 Select a curtain wall style. 5 Click the Design Rules tab. 6 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 7 Click New Mullion. 8 Enter a descriptive name for the mullion. 9 Specify a width and depth for the mullion. 
These dimensions are used to calculate the center point of the mullion for aligning the profile, and also to specify a boundary for the adjacent infill. 
10 Select Use Profile. 
NOTE The Profile options are available only if you have profiles in the current drawing. 
11 Select a profile from the list. 
By default, the profile is inserted using the same width and depth with which it was created. 
12 To adjust the size of the profile to fit within the width or depth dimension of the mullion, select Auto-Adjust Profile Width or Depth. 
13 To mirror the profile, select X or Y for Mirror In. 14 To rotate the profile, specify a rotation angle for Rotation. 15 Specify any offsets. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall on page 1459. 
16 Click OK. 
After you create a mullion definition, you can assign it to any mullion in a curtain wall. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1478. 
Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to define mullions that are offset from the start or end of the curtain wall to lengthen or shorten the edge or offset in the X or Y direction to shift the edge. For example, you might want to represent butt glazing by offsetting the mullions to be behind glass panel infills. 
Offset Description 
X For vertical mullions, a positive X offset moves the mullions toward the end of the curtain wall, while a negative X offset moves the mullions toward the start of the curtain wall. For horizontal mullions, a positive X offset moves the mullions toward the top of the curtain wall, while a negative X offset moves the mullions toward the bottom of the curtain wall. 
Y In Plan view, a positive Y offset moves the mullions above the baseline, while a negat­ive Y offset moves the mullions below the baseline. 
Offset Description 
Start Negative Start offset lengthens the mullions beyond the start point, while a positive Start offset shortens the mullions. 
End Negative End offset lengthens the mullions beyond the end point, while a positive End offset shortens the mullions. 
Specifying mullion offsets in x and y directions 

TIP To quickly identify the start and end of a curtain wall, select the curtain wall. The Reverse Direction grip is displayed near the center of the curtain wall and points toward the end of the curtain wall. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a mullion definition from the list. 7 Specify an offset distance for the X, Y, Start, or End. 8 Click OK. 
Removing a Mullion Definition from a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to remove a mullion definition from the Mullions definitions list. You cannot remove a mullion definition if it is assigned to a mullion, but you can remove it if it is assigned as an override to a mullion. In addition, you cannot remove the default mullion definition, but you can modify it as needed. 
NOTE For information about removing mullions from between cells, see Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1481. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded mullion definition from the list. 7 Click Remove Mullion. 8 Click OK. 
Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Elements 
After you’ve created element definitions for a curtain wall style, you can assign those definitions to each of the curtain wall element types: divisions, cell infills, frames, and mullions. 
By default, one definition is assigned to all elements of a particular type. However, you can assign definitions to individual elements as well. For example, all cells in the grid are assigned the default infill. You can, however, create a new cell assignment, select a different infill, and then specify the cells to use that infill. 
Assignment list 

For more information about element definitions, see Creating Element Definitions for a Curtain Wall Style on page 1425. 
Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid 
Use this procedure to assign a division to a curtain wall grid. A division defines the grid orientation (whether the direction of the grid cells and mullions is horizontal or vertical) and the division type (number and size of cells). 
After you define a division, you can assign it to the primary grid or to nested grids. Nested grids are created by selecting Nested Grid as the cell assignment. For more information, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid you want to assign a division to. 
The name of the grid you select is displayed in the table under the Division Assignment row. 
TIP To rename a grid, select it, and click Rename and enter a new name. 
6 Click the Element column for that grid and select a division definition from the list. 
7 Click OK. 
Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells 
An infill defines the contents of a curtain wall cell. A curtain wall cell can have the default simple panel or contain a nested grid, an AEC Polygon, curtain wall unit, door, window, or door/window assembly style. The object styles you use in infills must exist in the current drawing to be added to an infill definition. Panels typically represent glazing or other plain cladding, such as stone or concrete. For more information, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
Cell Assignments 
A cell assignment defines the infill definition used for the cells. You can use one cell assignment to assign the same infill to all cells, or you can create multiple cell assignments to assign different infills to different cells. 
Cell assignments 

Do not assign multiple definitions to the same cell because only the last assigned definition to the cell is used. 
Default Cell Assignment 
The default cell assignment is used by all unassigned cells. You can modify the default assignment to be any type of infill, but you cannot delete the default cell assignment. 
You may want to modify the default cell assignment to use the infill definition that occurs most frequently in your design. Any cells not assigned to other infills then use this infill definition. 
Materials and Display Properties of Infills 
The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default infill are applied to all infills unless you assign materials to the infills you created or you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each infill definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls 
Each curtain wall grid is one-dimensional with either a horizontal or vertical division. By nesting grids in the curtain wall style, you can create a variety of patterns from simple to complex. 
Example of nested grids 

Simple Primary Grids 
When you nest grids, you start with one primary grid. Each cell in the primary grid can then be filled with another grid. For example, if your primary grid is horizontal and has three cells, you can nest a vertical grid in each horizontal cell to create a simple two-dimensional (2D) grid. This is the nesting configuration for the Standard curtain wall style. 
Specifying cell division definitions 1 

The previous illustration shows all cells in the grid with the same cell assignment—a vertical division. However, each cell in a grid is independent and can have a separate assignment. For example, the following illustration shows a three cell horizontal grid with different assignments in each cell. The bottom cell contains another horizontal division, the middle cell contains vertical divisions of varying width, and the top cell contains a vertical divisions of a fixed width. 
Specifying cell division definitions 2 

Multiple Nested Grids 
You can continue to nest grids to create multiple levels. For example, the following illustrations show the Standard curtain wall style, which is a simple two-dimensional (2D) grid, with one horizontal cell and three vertical cells. Another grid is nested in the first cell of the secondary grid. This creates a tertiary grid. The final illustration shows the nested grids assigned to all cells. 
Specifying a sequence of nested grids 

Defining Nested Grids 
You can define nested grids by using the Design Rules tab of the Curtain Wall Style Properties dialog box. The tree in the left pane lists the grids. There is always one primary grid. The primary grid can have one or more secondary grids. Each secondary grid can have one or more tertiary grids, and so on. 
TIP To quickly create nested grids in all cells, change the default cell assignment to Nested Grid. If you want multiple levels of nesting, be sure to change the default cell assignment for each grid. For more information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall on page 1466. 
Each grid has its own cell assignments. You assign cells to contain another grid, a panel infill, or an object such as a door or window. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
Primary grid and cell assignments 

Secondary grid and cell assignments 

Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to create a nested grid in a curtain wall. A nested grid is a grid within a grid. Each nested grid has its own division, cell assignments, frame, and mullions. By default, the frame is turned off for nested grids. 
For more information, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a 
nested grid. 6 Click New Cell Assignment. A new cell assignment is displayed in the list of cell assignments. 
7 Select the cell assignment in the top right frame, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 
8 Select Nested Grid in the Element column. A new grid is added to the list of grids in the left pane. If you are editing the primary grid, the new grid is added at the secondary level. If you are editing a grid at the secondary level, the additional grid is placed at the tertiary level, and so on. 
Creating a nested grid 

New nested grid in tree 

NOTE To rename a grid, select it in the right pane, right-click and click Rename, and enter a new name. 
9 Specify the cells to contain this nested grid. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1472. 
10 Click OK. 
Inserting a Door, Window or Door/Window Assembly into a Curtain Wall Cell 
Use this procedure to add doors, windows and door/window assemblies to a curtain wall. For more information, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
1 Open the tool palette that you want to use, and select a door, window or door/window assembly. 2 Select the curtain wall in which to insert the door, window or door/window assembly. 
3 Select the curtain wall cell marker for the cell in which to insert the door, window or door/window assembly. The Add Infill worksheet opens. 

4 Select the insertion method for the door, window or door/window assembly: 
If you want to… Then… 
add the door, window or select Add as Cell Assignment. door/window assembly as a cell assignment and have all curtain walls us­ing the same style display the same object added in a corresponding cell 
add the door, window or select Add as Cell Override. door/window assembly exclusively to the selected curtain wall 
If a door, window or door/window assembly of the style you selected already exists in your drawing, Existing Infill is selected by default. 
5 Select the type of infill for the door, window or door/window assembly: 
If you selected… Then… 
Add as Cell Assignment Click OK. and you want to insert a 
If you selected… Then… 
door, window or door/window assembly of the existing style, Exist­ing Infill is selected by default. 
Add as Cell Assignment  select New Infill, enter a name for the object  
and you want to insert a  and click OK.  
door, window or  
door/window assembly  
of a different style than  
exists in your drawing  

Add as Cell Override and Click OK. you want to insert a door, window or door/window assembly of the existing style and not modify the edge of the frame surrounding the object 
Add as Cell Override and you want to insert a door, window or door/window assembly of a different style than exists in your drawing and not remove an edge of the frame surrounding the object select New Infill, enter a name for the object and click OK. 
Add as Cell Override and  select Top, Bottom, Left, or Right for Override  
you want to insert a  Frame Removal and click OK.  
door, window or  
door/window assembly  
of the existing style and  
remove an edge of the  
frame surrounding the  
object  

If you selected… Then… 
Add as Cell Override and you want to insert a door, window or door/window assembly of a different style than exists in your drawing and remove an edge of the frame surrounding the object select New Infill and enter a name for the object. Then select Top, Bottom, Left, or Right for Override Frame Removal and click OK. 
6 Press ENTER. 
Filling a Curtain Wall Cell with a Simple Panel 
Use this procedure to fill a curtain wall cell with a simple panel. Simple panels are generally used to represent basic cladding materials in the curtain wall, such as a stone wall panel or a concrete panel. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to put a simple 
panel infill. 6 Click New Cell Assignment. 

A new cell assignment is displayed in the list of cell assignments. 
7 Select the cell assignment in the top right pane, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 
8 Under Element, select an infill that defines a simple panel. If you do not have a simple panel infill defined, then select New Infill and define one. For more information, see Creating a Panel Infill for a Curtain Wall on page 1442. 
9 Specify the cells to contain this simple panel. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1472. 
10 Click OK. 
Inserting an Object into a Curtain Wall Cell 
Use this procedure to insert objects, such as curtain wall units and AEC Polygons, into a curtain wall cell. Curtain wall cells can contain these objects when you create infill definitions that use them. For more information, see Creating a Style Infill for a Curtain Wall on page 1443. 
TIP After you insert an object in a cell, you can select that object independent of the grid, right-click, and access editing options for the object. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to insert objects. 6 Click New Cell Assignment. 
A new cell assignment is displayed in the list of cell assignments. 
7 Select the cell assignment in the top right frame, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 8 Select an infill that uses an object style. 
9 Specify the cells to contain this object. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1472. 
10 Click OK. 
Removing an Infill from a Curtain Wall Cell 
Use this procedure to remove the infill of a cell and leave the cell empty. To do this, use None as the element definition. Using None also removes any frame edges that border the cell, but it does not affect the mullions. 
Removing an infill assignment from a cell 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid that contains the cells you want 
to assign to None. 6 Create a new cell assignment or select an existing cell assignment. 7 Select NONE under the Element column. 8 Specify the cells to contain the None infill. 
For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1472. 
9 Click OK. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Cells Use a Cell Assignment 
When you create a cell assignment you need to specify the cells in the grid to use that assignment. There are two options for selecting cells: 
¦ Use Location to insert the infill into the start, middle, or end cells of a vertical grid or into the bottom, middle, or top cells of a horizontal grid. If there is an even number of cells (four or more), Middle refers to the two cells in the middle of the grid. If there is an odd number of cells (three or more), Middle refers to one cell in the middle of the grid. 
Specifying cell assignments by location 

¦ Use Index to insert the infill into specific cells based on cell numbers. Cells are numbered from start to end or bottom to top. For example, typing 1, 3, 5 would place the infill in the first, third, and fifth cells. 
Specifying cell assignment by index 

TIP When you are trying to determine cell assignments in a grid that has both vertical and horizontal cells it is helpful to remember that each of these directions is actually in a separate grid. You can have a vertical grid with a nested horizontal grid, or the other way around. Select each grid separately to make cell assignments. 
Any cells that are not assigned a specific cell assignment use the default infill. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select a grid. 
6 In the right pane, select Location or Index for Type. 7 Select a cell assignment: 
If you select … Then … 
Location click the Used In column, and click the button at the far right of the row. Select the cells you want to use this assignment, and click OK. 
Index enter the cell numbers separated by commas in the Used In column. For vertical grids, cells are numbered from start to end and for horizontal grids, cells are numbered from bottom to top. 
NOTE Do not assign multiple definitions to a cell because the last definition assigned to the cell is used. 
8 Click OK. 
Removing an Assignment from a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to remove cell assignments, frame assignments, and mullion assignments from a curtain wall style. You cannot remove default assignments, but you can modify them to suit your needs. 
NOTE Each grid requires one division assignment. Therefore, you cannot remove the division assignment, although you can change the division element used for the division assignment. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid from which you want to remove 
an assignment. 6 Select a cell assignment, frame assignment, or a mullion assignment. 7 Click Remove Assignment. 
8 Click OK. 
Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Frames 
The curtain wall frame is represented by the outer edges of the primary grid. Each nested grid has its own frame that is defined separately from the primary grid frame. By default, the frames of nested grids are turned off. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
Frame Assignments 
A frame assignment defines the frame definition that is used by each frame edge. You can use one frame assignment to assign the same definition to all four edges of the frame, or you can create multiple frame assignments to assign different definitions to different edges of the frame. Unassigned edges are not displayed. 
Do not assign multiple definitions to the frame edge because only the last definition assigned to the edge is used. 
Default Frame Assignment 
There is a default frame assignment and you can select the frame edges it applies to. You can modify the default assignment to use any frame definition, but you cannot delete the default frame assignment. 
Materials and Display Properties of Frames 
The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default frame are applied to all frame edges unless you assign materials to the frame definition or you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each frame definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
Adding a New Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to add a frame assignment to a curtain wall. To assign different definitions to different frame edges, you need multiple frame assignments. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a new 
frame assignment. 
6 Click New Frame Assignment. A new frame assignment is displayed in the list of frame assignments. 
New frame assignment 

7 Select the frame assignment in the right pane, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 8 Select a frame definition from the Element column. 
9 Specify the sides of the frame to use this frame assignment. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Edges Use a Frame Assignment on page 1477. 
10 Click OK. 
Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to remove a frame edge from a curtain wall. There are three ways to remove a frame edge: 
¦ 
Set the width and depth of the edge to zero 

¦ 
Leave the edge unassigned 

¦ 
Specify None as an override to the edge assignment 


The first two methods remove the frame edge and expand the adjacent infills into the space occupied by the edge. 
Specifying a frame width and depth of zero 

By specifying None as an override, the frame edge is not displayed, but the adjacent infill is not expanded into the space the edge occupied. 
Overriding a frame edge definition 

For information about setting the width and depth to zero, see Defining a Curtain Wall Frame by Width and Depth on page 1449. 
For information about leaving the edge unassigned, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Edges Use a Frame Assignment on page 1477. 
For information about overriding the edge, see Overriding Curtain Wall Frames and Mullions on page 1503. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Edges Use a Frame Assignment 
Use this procedure to specify edges that use a frame assignment. When you create a frame assignment, you need to specify the edges of the frame to use that assignment. 
Frame edges that are not assigned a frame definition are not displayed. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select a grid. 6 Select a frame assignment. 
Location is the only way to specify the frame edges. 
7 Click the Used In column, and then click the [...] button at the far right of the row. 
Specifying frame location 

8 Select the edges that you want to use this assignment - Left, Right, Top, or Bottom - and click OK. 
Assigning frames to nested grids 

Do not assign multiple definitions to the same frame edge because only the last definition assigned to the edge is used. 
9 Click OK. 
Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Mullions 
The mullions of a curtain wall are the edges between the grid cells. The primary grid and each nested grid have mullions that are defined separately from the other grids. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
Assign mullions to a nested grid 

Mullion Assignments 
A mullion assignment defines the definition used by each mullion. You can use one assignment to define all mullions, or you can create multiple assignments and assign different definitions to different mullions in any grid. 
Do not assign multiple definitions to the same mullion because only the last definition assigned to the mullion is used. 
Default Mullion Assignment 

There is a default mullion assignment used by all unassigned mullions. You can modify the default assignment to be any mullion definition, but you cannot delete the default mullion assignment. 
Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to add a new mullion assignment to a curtain wall style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a new 
mullion assignment. 
6 Click New Mullion Assignment. A new mullion assignment is displayed in the list of mullion assignments. 
New mullion assignment 

7 Select the mullion assignment, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 8 Select a mullion definition from the Element column. 
9 Specify the mullions to use this assignment. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Mullions Use an Assignment on page 1480. 
10 Click OK. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Mullions Use an Assignment 
When you create a mullion assignment you need to specify the mullions in the grid to use that assignment. There are two options for selecting mullions: 
¦ 
Use Location to assign a definition to the start, middle, or end mullions of a vertical grid or the bottom, middle, or top mullions of a horizontal grid. If there is an even number of mullions (four or more), Middle refers to the two mullions in the middle of the grid. If there is an odd number of mullions (three or more), Middle refers to the one mullion in the middle of the grid. 

¦ 
Use Index to assign a definition to specific mullions based on mullion numbers. Mullions are numbered from start to end or bottom to top. For example, typing 1, 2, 3 would assign the definition to the first, second, and third mullions. 


1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select a grid. 6 Create a new mullion assignment or select an existing assignment. 
7 Select Location or Index for Type. 8 Select a cell assignment. 
If you selected … Then … 
Location click the Used In column, and click the button at the far right of the row. Select the cells you want to use this cell assignment, and click OK. 
Index enter the mullion numbers separ­ated by commas in the Used In column. For vertical grids, mullions are numbered from start to end and, for horizontal grids, mullions are numbered from bottom to top. 
NOTE Do not assign multiple definitions to the same mullion because only the last definition assigned to the mullion is used. 
9 Click OK. Any mullions that are not assigned a specific mullion assignment use the default mullion definition. 
Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Grid 
Use this procedure to remove a mullion from the curtain wall. You can create a mullion definition whose edge width and depth are zero. Adjacent infills expand to fill in the space that was occupied by the mullion. This is an effective way to represent butt glazing. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to remove a 
mullion. 
6 Create a new mullion assignment and enter 0 (zero) for the width and depth. For more information, see Defining Curtain Wall Mullions by 
Width and Depth on page 1456. 
7 Under Mullion Assignments, select the mullion definition you created for any cell edges of any mullion assignment, where you want to remove the mullions. 
For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall 
Mullions Use an Assignment on page 1480. 
8 Click OK. 
Specifying the Materials of a Curtain Wall Style 
A curtain wall consists of a number of components whose display properties can be determined by the materials assigned to each component. 
When you assign materials to a curtain wall style, you assign one material to each display component of the curtain wall. For example, you assign a wood material to the frame and a glass material to the glass inset. You assign materials to components in each display representation where you want the materials to be used. 
If you want to use the display properties of the curtain wall style, instead of using material display properties, you can turn off the material assignments in the display properties of the curtain wall style. 
Material definitions consist of display components that correspond to component types of objects. For example, the Linework component of a material is used for all linework in plan view. The Surface Hatch component of a material is used to hatch all object surfaces in three dimensional (3D) model views and in elevations. 
Curtain Wall Materials and Display Components 
The following table identifies the material component that corresponds to each curtain wall component in the specified views. 
Curtain Wall Component Material Component 
Plan, Plan High Detail, Plan Low Detail, Screened, Reflected Plan 
Frame Definitions Linework 
Mullion Definitions Linework 
Infill Definitions Linework 
Frame Definitions Hatch Linework 
Mullion Definitions Hatch Linework 
Infill Definitions Hatch Linework 
Model 
Frame 3D Body 
Mullion 3D Body 
Infill 3D Body 
Assigning Materials to a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to assign materials to the individual components of a curtain wall style. When you assign a material to a curtain wall component, the component uses the display properties of the material instead of the style display properties. 
You can assign a material to any physical component of the curtain wall. Custom components and components that are only symbolic graphics do not use materials for their display properties. For example, the frame, mullion, and infill are physical components of a curtain wall. The cell marker is a symbolic component. 
NOTE If a material assignment does not determine the display properties of a curtain wall component, you can change the display properties of the curtain wall style as described in Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls on page 1484. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear, and select Style Override. 
6 If necessary, click 
. 7 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 8 Select By Material for any component to which you want to assign 
a material, and click OK. If the setting for By Material is not available, the display of this component cannot be determined by a material. 
9 Click the Materials tab. 
10 Select the component you want to change, select the value for Material Definition, and select a different material definition. You can select any material definition in the current drawing, or 
click 
to create a new material definition and assign it to a 
component. 
WARNING Although you can edit a material definition from this dialog box, any changes you make to the material definition apply to all objects that are assigned the material. 
11 Click OK. 
Specifying the Display of Curtain Walls 
The display of a curtain wall depends on the direction from which you view the curtain wall. In Plan view, the curtain wall object is displayed as parallel lines with vertices marking the grid lines, as an architect would typically draw a curtain wall. In 3D isometric views, the curtain wall object is displayed as it would appear in the real world, with surfaces showing length, thickness, and height. You control what you want to display in each particular view. 
Element Definitions and Custom Display Components 
By default, the display of all infills, frames, and mullions is controlled by the display properties of the default infill, default frame, and default mullions. However, you can add individual element definitions as components with separate display properties. For example, if you define two infills called stone panel and glass panel, by default they are both controlled by the default infill display properties. However, you can add each definition as a new display component, and then control the display properties separately. 
NOTE The component name in the Custom Display Component dialog box must match the name of element definition in the Design Rules tab. Otherwise the element definition does not display properly. 
For more information about the display system, see Display System on page 777. 
Materials and Display Properties 
You can use materials to control the display of both default and custom infills, frames, and mullions. When you assign materials to the element definitions you create, you do not need to define these definitions as custom display components. For more information, see Specifying the Materials of a Curtain Wall Style on page 1482. 
Adding Curtain Wall Element Definitions as Display Components 
Use this procedure to add curtain wall element definitions. Before you can control the display properties of curtain wall elements according to the definition assigned to the element, you must create display components for each element definition. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select Model as the display representation. 
6 Click 
. The default list of components includes only the three basic elements and cell markers. 
Default Model display components for curtain walls 

7 Click the Other tab, and then click Add. 8 Select Infill, Frame, or Mullion for Component Type. 9 Enter a name for Component Name, or click Select Element and 
select an element from the list. 10 Click OK. 11 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 
The element definition that you added is displayed in the list of components. 12 Click the Other tab to continue adding element definitions, or click OK twice. 
Specifying the Layer, Color, and Linetype of a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to change the following display properties of the components of a curtain wall style: 
¦ 
Visibility (component is on or off) 

¦ 
By Material 

¦ 
Layer 

¦ 
Color 

¦ 
Linetype 

¦ 
Lineweight 

¦ 
Linetype scale 



1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear. 6 Click Style Override. 7 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 8 Select the component to change, and select a different setting for 
the property. 9 Click OK twice. 
Specifying the Hatching for Components of a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to specify the hatching of the components of a curtain wall style. Curtain wall hatching is displayed only in display representations, such as Plan, that are used in Top view (Plan view) of a drawing. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear, and click Style Override. 6 Click the Hatching tab. 7 Select a component, and click the setting for Pattern. 8 Specify the hatching for the component: 
If you want to specify … Then … 
a hatching pattern that is available select Predefined for Type, and then in the software select a pattern. 
a custom pattern select Custom for Type, and then enter the name of the custom pat­tern. If necessary, click Browse, and navigate to the folder where the custom pattern file is located. 
If you want to specify … Then … 
single hatching select User-defined for Type, and clear Double Hatch. 
double hatching select User-defined for Type, and select Double Hatch. 
solid fill select Solid Fill for Type. 
9 Click OK. 10 Click the setting for Scale/Spacing, and enter a value that determines how the selected pattern is repeated. 11 Click the setting for Angle, and enter the angle for the selected pattern. 12 Click the setting for Orientation, and specify how the hatching is oriented: 
If you want to orient the Then … hatching … 
to the object, regardless of the ob-select Object. ject rotation 
to the World Coordinate System select Global. 
13 Click OK twice. 
Adding Custom Graphics as a Display Component of a Curtain Wall 
There may be instances where an infill, frame, or mullion requires a custom two-dimensional (2D) or three-dimensional (3D) graphic. For example, you might need a highly detailed 3D truss as the mullions or a decorative light fixture applied to an infill. In cases like these, you can create a custom block, add a display component with the block attached, and associate that component with an element definition. When you assign that definition to an element, the block is also displayed. 
1 Draw your custom component, and save it as a block. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 4 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 5 Click the Display Properties tab. 
6 Click 
. 7 Click the Other tab. 8 Click Add. 9 Select Infill, Frame, or Mullion as the element type. 
10 Select the specific element from the list. 11 Select Draw Custom Graphics. 12 Specify the display of the element: 
If you want to … Then … 
display the block instead of the as-select Replace Graphics. sociated curtain wall element 
superimpose the block over the clear Replace Graphics. curtain wall element so that both are displayed 
13 Click Select Block, and select the custom block that you created. 14 Click OK. 15 Specify further settings for the custom display block: 
If you want to … Then … 
scale the block to fit a particular di-select Width, Height, or Depth. To mension prevent the block from losing its proportions, select Lock XY Ratio. 
specify how the block is inserted specify an insertion point on the X, into the grid in the X, Y, and Z dir-Y, and Z planes. ections 
mirror the block determine if it should mirror in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
offset the block from the grid specify the offset in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
16 Click OK three times. 
Creating Cut Planes for a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to specify the properties of one or more cut planes for a curtain wall style. Cut plane display properties apply only to display representations, such as Plan, that are used in Top view (Plan view) of a drawing. 
To better visualize the elements of a curtain wall in Plan view, you can create cut planes. The main cut plane is where the shrinkwrap and hatching are applied. The plan display shows the components and objects in the wall as they are displayed at the height of each cut plane. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 
5 Select Plan, and click 
. 
NOTE The Cut Plane tab is displayed only in some display representations, such as Plan. 
6 Click the Cut Plane tab to set the cut plane to be displayed in each display representation for the curtain wall style. 
7 Enter a value for Cut Plane Height to specify the cut plane at which hatching takes effect. 
8 To specifically define a cut plane, click Add, and enter the height of the new cut plane. 
If you add a cut plane … Then … 
at a height that is lower than the objects are displayed using the 
value for Cut Plane Height properties specified for the Below Cut Plane component on the Lay­er/Color/Linetype tab. 
at a height that is higher than the objects are displayed using the 
value for Cut Plane Height properties specified for the Above Cut Plane component on the Lay­er/Color/Linetype tab. 
Below and Above components 

You can click Remove to delete a cut plane that you added. 
9 Click OK twice. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Style as Bounding for Associative Spaces 
Use this procedure to define a curtain wall style that can bound associative spaces. 
When a curtain wall style is set as bounding, by default all curtain walls that have the style assigned will be used in the selection set for an associative space. For more information about associative spaces see Generating Associative Spaces on page 2904. 
You can override the bounding settings from the curtain wall style in an individual curtain wall, if necessary. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall style. 4 Click the General tab. 5 Select the checkbox for Objects of this style may act as a boundary 
for associative spaces. 6 Click OK. 
Attaching Notes and Files to a Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to enter notes and attach reference files to a curtain wall style. You can also edit notes and edit or detach reference files from a curtain wall style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style you want to change. 4 Click the General tab. 5 To add a description to the curtain wall style, enter it for 
Description. 6 Click Notes. 7 To add a note, click the Text Notes tab, and enter the note. 8 Click the Reference Docs tab, and attach, edit, or detach a 
reference file: 
If you want to … Then … 
attach a reference file click Add, select a file, and click OK. 
edit the description of a reference select the file, and click Edit. Enter file the description, and click OK. 
edit a reference file double-click the reference file name to start its application. 
detach a reference file select the file name, and click De­lete. 
9 Click OK. 
Using Overrides in Curtain Walls 
Curtain walls are geometrically complex objects that often have a large number of different elements, such as frames, panels, and window infills. The settings for these elements are defined in the curtain wall style and can be modified using Style Manager. However, there are cases when modifying a curtain wall directly on screen is more suitable: 
¦ 
You want to add custom frame or mullion edges to a curtain wall and need direct visual feedback. 

¦ 
You want to create an override, like a merged infill or an irregular panel shape in only one specific place in the curtain wall. 

¦ 
You want to experiment with different visuals without having to change the curtain wall style for each idea immediately. 


When you have finished your onscreen edits, you have three choices: 
¦ 
apply the overrides to the curtain wall you have edited. 

¦ 
save the overrides to the current curtain wall style. 

¦ 
create a new style for the overrides. 


Overrides you can set include assigning a different definition to a selected cell, frame, or mullion, and assigning a profile to a frame or mullion edge. Note that the definition or profile must already exist in the current drawing before you can use it as an override. For example, if you want to override a cell that has a simple panel infill with an octagonal window infill, you must first define the window (octagonal) style as a valid infill in the curtain wall style. Similarly, if you want to override a frame or mullion edge assignment in the curtain wall, the curtain wall style must contain the edge profile as a frame or mullion definition. 
NOTE You cannot modify a definition using the Override method. For information about modifying definitions, see Modifying Element Definitions for Curtain Wall Styles on page 1520. 
Overrides do not affect the Design Rules for the curtain wall style. However, you can transfer overrides to a curtain wall style if you want all curtain walls of that style to have the same overrides. 
You can view a list of overrides that are currently assigned to a curtain wall from the Overrides tab of the Curtain Wall Properties dialog box. For more information, see Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520. 
NOTE Overrides are also listed on the Overrides tab in the Curtain Wall Style Properties dialog box. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Infills 
The cell infills of a curtain wall are set in the curtain wall style. You can, however, create overrides for these infills in cells. For example, you might want a row of glider windows for a first floor facade. In one specific position, however, you want a frosted glass window. In this case, you would set the row of glider windows in the curtain wall style, and then override the infill style in one specific cell with a frosted glass window. 
Curtain wall infills can consist of simple panels, objects like windows or doors, or nested grids. You can change one infill for another, merge cells, or remove the frame from an infill altogether. This would be useful if you add a door into a grid cell and want to remove the bottom frame from that cell. 
Turning on Cell Markers 
Use this procedure to turn on the cell markers for each grid cell in a curtain wall. The cell markers must be on in order to select individual cells and make changes to them. 
Viewing Cell Markers 

1 Select the curtain wall for which you want to create an infill override. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Show Infill Markers . 
Merging Curtain Wall Cells 
Use this procedure to merge two curtain wall cells. 

NOTE To merge curtain wall cells, the cell markers need to be visible. For information on turning on cell markers, see Turning on Cell Markers on page 1494. 
You can only merge cells which are adjacent to each other. 
In most cases you merge cells with the same infill type. The merged cell is then the same type as the original cells. For example, if you merge two solid panel infills, the resulting merged cell also has a solid panel infill. In some cases however, you might want to merge two cells that have different infill types. In that case, the infill type of the first selected cell is used for the merged cell. For example, if you want to merge a cell with a simple panel infill and a cell with a window infill, and you select the cell with the simple panel first during the merge command, the merged cell contains a simple panel infill, not a window. If you select the two cells in the opposite order, the merged cell contains a window and no simple panel infill. 
Merging two cells 

1 Select the curtain wall on which you want to merge two cells. 2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Infill 
drop-down . Merge. 3 Select the first cell to be merged. 4 Select the second cell to be merged. 
The cells are merged into one. 
5 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall override: 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall no further steps are necessary. The override is saved to the curtain wall. For information about how to re­move an override from a curtain wall, see Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520. 
to a curtain wall style select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify pan-
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
el . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
6 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall style, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style.Then, decide to which curtain wall style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall style 
select Transfer Merge Operations to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a cell merge, only the Transfer Merge Operations to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a new cell assignment or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their check-boxes, too. 
to a new curtain wall style select Transfer Merge Operations to Style, and click New. Then, enter a name for the new curtain wall style, and click OK. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
NOTE If you have created only a cell merge, only the Transfer Merge Operations to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a new cell assignment or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their check-boxes, too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides still remain on the curtain wall, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall style. 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Cells 
Use this procedure to edit curtain wall cells using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit individual cells, bays, columns, or nested grids of the curtain wall directly and interactively in the drawing area, and later save the changes to the curtain wall or curtain wall style. 
1 Select a curtain wall on which you want to edit cells with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
If you want to edit … Then … 
the curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. If this option is not available, the design rules are already style-based for the curtain wall. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter c (Cell) and press ENTER. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
5 Select the individual cells, bay, column, or nested grid to modify the cell assignment by hovering over a cell or pressing TAB, and press ENTER. 
Press CTRL to select multiple cells, bays, columns or nested grids. 
The Edit Cells worksheet displays. 

6 Edit the cell for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
assign an infill to selected select Assign Infill and select an infill defini­cells tion. Clear Replace Cell and click OK. 
replace the selected cells select Assign Infill and select an infill defini­with a new infill tion. Select Replace Cell and click OK. 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designinfill to the selected cells 
Rules worksheet. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
divide the selected cells select Subdivision. with divisions, infills or frames 
select a division for the select a division definition. subdivided cells 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designdivision to the selected 
Rules worksheet.
cells For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Grid on page 1462. 
select an infill for the select an infill definition. subdivided cells 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designinfill to the subdivided 
Rules worksheet.
cells For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Cells on page 1463. 
select a frame definition select the frame definition and click OK. for the grid created after the cell is subdivided 
specify the location of select Top, Bottom, Left, Right for Frame frames on the grid cre-Location and click OK. 
If you want to… Then… 
ated after the cell is sub­divided 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designframe definition for the 
Rules worksheet.
new grid created after For more information, see Adding a Newthe cell is subdivided 
Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall on page 1475. 
select a mullion definition select the mullion definition. for the grid created after the cell is subdivided 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designmullion definition to the 
Rules worksheet.
selected grid For more information, see Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Style 
on page 1479. 
replace the existing cell select Replace Cell. infill with the options se­lected on this worksheet 
continue in-place editing select Continue Grid Editing. the grid after the cell is subdivided 
7 Click OK. 8 Press ENTER. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Infill Override 
Use this procedure to override the infill of a curtain wall cell. 
For example, you might have a row of simple concrete panels in your curtain wall, but want in one location a round window instead of the concrete panel. In that case, it might be simpler to use an infill override, instead of creating complex curtain wall unit definitions. 
NOTE To override an infill assignment, the cell markers must be visible. For information on turning on cell markers, see Turning on Cell Markers on page 1494. 
To exchange an infill definition, the new infill definition must already be defined in the curtain wall style. For information on creating infill definitions, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
1 Select the curtain wall on which you want to override an infill. 2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Infill drop-down . Override Assignment. 3 Select the marker of the cell where you want to create an override, and press ENTER. 

4 Create the override. 
If you want to … Then … 
exchange the existing infill for an-select a new infill definition from other the list. 
remove one or more of the frames  select the frame component to be  
around the infill  removed. You could, for example,  
override a cell to contain a door in­ 
fill instead of a panel infill; in this  
case, you would want to remove  
the bottom frame of the cell.  

remove the complete infill and its select Remove Infill and Frames. 
frame NOTE This works only for infills that border the exterior of the curtain wall. 
5 Click OK. 6 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall no further steps are necessary. The override is saved to the curtain wall. For information about how to re­move an override from a curtain wall, see Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520. 
to a curtain wall style select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify pan­el . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
7 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall style, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style.Then, decide to which curtain wall style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall style 
select Transfer Cell Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only an infill override, only the Transfer Cell Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes, too. 
to a new curtain wall style select Transfer Cell Overrides to Style, and click New. Then, enter a 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
name for the new curtain wall style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only an infill override, only the Transfer Cell Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes, too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides remain on the curtain wall, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall style. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Frames and Mullions 
You can change a selected frame edge or mullion edge by using an edge assignment override. 
NOTE To exchange a frame edge or mullion edge, the new edge definition must already be defined in the curtain wall style. 
Removing the edge does not affect the width of the cell. To remove the edge and have the adjacent cell resize, create an edge definition with a width and depth of zero. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Frame by Width and Depth on page 1449or Defining Curtain Wall Mullions by Width and Depth on page 1456. 
You can also create a new edge profile by drawing a polyline or using an existing profile in the drawing. This edge profile can be interactively edited onscreen by in-place editing. 
Creating a Frame or Mullion Override 
Use this procedure to override an individual frame or mullion. 
To exchange a frame or mullion, the new definition must already be defined in the curtain wall style. For information on creating frames and mullions, see Defining Curtain Wall Frames on page 1447 and Defining Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1454. 
1 Select the curtain wall on which you want to override an edge. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion drop-down . Override Assignment. 
3 Select the frame or mullion edge you want to override. 
If you selected a frame edge, the Frame Assignment Override dialog box is displayed. If you selected a mullion, the Mullion Assignment Override dialog 
box is displayed. 
4 Create the override. 
If you want to … Then … 
exchange the existing edge for an-select a new edge definition from other the list. 
remove the frame or mullion edge select Remove Edge. 
5 Click OK. 6 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall no further steps are necessary. The override is saved to the curtain wall. For information about how to re­move an override from a curtain wall, see Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520. 
to a curtain wall style select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify pan­el . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
7 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall style, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style. Then, decide to which curtain wall style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall style 
select Transfer Edge Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a frame or mullion edge over­ride, only the Transfer Edge Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes, too. 
to a new curtain wall style 
select Transfer Edge Overrides to Style, and click New. Then, enter a name for the new curtain wall style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a frame or mullion edge over­ride, only the Transfer Edge Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes, too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides remain on the curtain wall, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall style. 
Creating a Frame or Mullion Edge from a Polyline or Profile Using In-Place Editing 
Use this procedure to assign a profile to a vertical edge of a frame or mullion. The curtain wall edge profile can be any profile or any closed polyline that you specify. You can use a profile edge to create a unique corner in situations where a simple miter is not sufficient. 
NOTE Adjacent infills are not trimmed or expanded to accommodate the new edge. To adjust the infill, change the width of the frame edge. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Frame by Width and Depth on page 1449. 
Overriding edge profile 

1 Draw a closed polyline in the location where you want it to display in the curtain wall. 
NOTE For best results, it is recommended to draw the polyline in Plan view. 
2 Select the curtain wall for which you want to create a frame or mullion edge profile override. 
3 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
the curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. If this option is not available, the design rules are already style-based for the curtain wall. 
4 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion drop-down . Add Profile. 
5 Select a vertical frame or mullion edge. 

6 Select a profile for the override. 
If you want to create the edge Then … profile … 
from the polyline drawn in step 1 select Start from scratch for Profile Definition, and enter a name for New Profile Name. 
from an existing profile in the select the existing profile for Profile drawing Definition, and click Continue Edit­ing. 
7 Select whether to apply the profile to the shared edge element definition or as an edge profile override. 
8 Click OK. You are now in in-place edit mode, and can edit the profile. 
9 Click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Zoom To
 . 10 Select the profile and edit it using Edge and Vertex grips, by using the commands on the contextual Edit in Place tab, or by right-clicking the context menu. 

The Edge grip has three edit modes: Offset, Add Vertex, and Convert to Arc. The default mode is Offset, which offsets the selected edge in a direction that is perpendicular to the midpoint of the edge. Depending on the shape of the profile and the edge you choose to modify, neighboring lines are extended or trimmed, and new lines are added, as necessary. 
Use the Add Vertex edit mode to add a vertex to the selected edge, and create a new edge. If the selected edge is an arc, the new edge is an arc, as well. 
Convert to Arc changes the selected edge to an arc and stretches the midpoint of the edge. The edge grip for an arc also has a Stretch mode, so that you can stretch the midpoint of the edge after it has been converted to an arc. 
11 Save or discard changes to the curtain wall grid: 
If you want to exit the in-place Then … editing session … 
without saving your changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Cancel
 . 
after saving your changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
In-Place Editing of Edge Profiles for Curtain Walls 
Use this procedure to edit profile edges using in-place editing. With in-place editing, you can edit the curtain wall directly and interactively in the drawing area and later save the changes to the profile definition. 
1 Select a curtain wall that has the edge profile you want to edit with in-place editing. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion 
drop-down . Edit Profile. This command is only available if you have profile-based edges in the curtain wall. 
NOTE If the profile is not drawn to size, it must be converted in order for you to begin the in-place editing session. Click Yes if prompted to convert the profile to its actual size. 
3 Select the edge you want to edit. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the magenta-colored grips and light blue hatch of the temporary in-place editing profile, as well as the faded color of all other objects in the drawing. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
4 Edit the profile: 
If you want to … Then … 
use grips to edit the profile move the grips as needed. The Edge grip has three edit modes: Offset, Add Vertex, and Convert to Arc. The default mode is Offset, which offsets the selected edge in a direction that is perpendicular to the midpoint of the edge. Depend­ing on the shape of the profile and the edge you choose to modify, neighboring lines are extended or trimmed, and new lines are added, as necessary. 
If you want to … Then … 
add a vertex to the profile 
Use the Add Vertex edit mode to add a vertex to the selected edge, and create a new edge. If the selec­ted edge is an arc, the new edge is an arc, as well. Convert to Arc changes the selected edge to an arc and stretches the midpoint of the edge. The edge grip for an arc also has a Stretch mode, so that you can stretch the midpoint of the edge after it has been converted to an arc. 
select an Edge grip, and press CTRL to switch to the Add Vertex edit mode. Alternatively, you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Add 
Vertex
 . Move the edge to the desired loca­tion and click, or enter a value and press ENTER. 
remove a vertex from the profile 
select the Vertex grip for the vertex you want to remove, and press CTRL to switch to the Remove edit mode. Alternatively, you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Remove 
Vertex
 . Move the cursor off the selected vertex, and click. 
add a ring to the profile select the profile, right-click and click Add Ring. Alternatively, you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Add 
Ring
 . Then, select a closed polyline, spline, ellipse, or circle for an addi­
If you want to … Then … 
remove a ring from a profile 
tional ring. Specify if you want to erase the source linework, and press Enter. 
select the profile, right-click and click Remove Ring. Alternatively you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Remove 
Ring
 . Then select the ring you want to remove. 
NOTE You cannot remove the last ring from a profile. 
replace a ring on a profile 
select the profile, right-click and click Replace Ring. Alternatively you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Replace 
Ring
 . Then, select a closed polyline, spline, ellipse, or circle for the re­placed ring. Specify if you want to erase the source linework, and press Enter. 
5 Save the changes to the profile.: 
If you want to … Then … 
change the existing profile defini-click Edit In Place tab . Edits pan­tion to reflect the new shape 
el . Finish
 . 
create a new profile definition with  click Edit In Place tab . Edits pan- 
the shape you have created  el . Save As  . Then, enter a  
name for the new profile and click  
OK. The in-place edit session is ex­ 
ited and the new profile definition  
is available in the Style Manager.  

If you want to … Then … 
discard all changes on the profile click Edit In Place tab . Edits pan-and revert back to the previous 
el . Cancel
 .
shape 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Frames and Mullions 
Use this procedure to edit frames and mullions using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit bays, columns or nested grids of the curtain wall directly and interactively in the drawing area, and later save the changes to the curtain wall or curtain wall style. 
1 Select a curtain wall on which you want to edit frames or mullions with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
the curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter f (Frame and mullion assignment) and press ENTER. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
5 Select the bay, column or nested grid to modify the frame and mullion assignment and press ENTER. Press CTRL to select multiple bays, columns or nested grids. 
The Modify Frame/Mullion Assignment worksheet displays. 

6 Select a frame definition for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
modify the frame of the select a frame definition and click OK. selected grid 
specify the location of the  select Top, Bottom, Left, Right for Frame  
frame on the selected  Location and click OK.  
grid  

create and assign a new click 
.
frame definition to the For more information, see Adding a Newselected grid 
Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall on page 1475. 
7 Select the mullion definition for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
modify the mullion of the select the mullion definition and click OK. selected grid 
create and assign a new click 
and complete the Design Rulesmullion definition to the 
worksheet.
selected grid For more information, see Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Style 
on page 1479. 
8 Press ENTER. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Divisions 
The grid of a curtain wall is made up of one or more divisions that define how the curtain wall is partitioned. Divisions can be horizontal or vertical, and can be nested in each other. For detailed information on curtain wall divisions, see Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Grids on page 1428. 
You can override a division in a curtain wall, thereby changing the grid of the curtain wall. 

Creating a Division Override 
Use this procedure to create a division override on a curtain wall. 
NOTE To exchange a curtain wall division, the new division definition must already be defined in the curtain wall style. For information on curtain wall divisions, see Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Grids on page 1428. 
1 Select the curtain wall for which you want to create a division override. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Division drop-down . Override Assignment. 3 Select an edge of the curtain wall to determine if a horizontal or 
vertical division is overridden. For example, if you want to override the primary horizontal division, you could select the bottom horizontal frame of the curtain wall. 
TIP The Division Assignment Override dialog box shows you which grid type and which grid division you have selected, e.g. Selected Nested Grid: Secondary Grid, Division Element Definition: Vertical 3 Cells. If you have accidentally selected the wrong division, click Cancel and reselect the correct grid. 
4 Select the appropriate division override, and click OK. 5 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall override: 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall no further steps are necessary. The override is saved to the curtain wall. For information about how to re­move an override from a curtain wall, see Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520. 
to a curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
6 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall style, select the curtain wall again, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify 
panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style. Then, decide to which curtain wall style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall style 
select Transfer Division Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Division Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other over­rides, such as a cell merge or a edge override, these check-boxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their checkboxes, too. 
to a new curtain wall style 
select Transfer Division Overrides to Style, and click New. Then, enter a name for the new curtain wall style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Division Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other over­rides, such as a cell merge or a edge override, these check-boxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their checkboxes, too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides remain on the curtain wall, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Overrides on page 1520, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall style. 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Divisions 
Use this procedure to edit divisions using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit the curtain wall directly and interactively in the drawing area, and later save the changes to the curtain wall or curtain wall style. For more information, see Division of Curtain Wall Grids on page 1428. 
1 Select a curtain wall on which you want to edit divisions with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
the curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter d (Division in place) and press ENTER. 
Viewing edit in-place grips for a primary division 

NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
Viewing edit in-place grips for adding and removing bays 

5 Edit the division: 
If you want to … Then … 
add a bay to the grid click the Add Bay grip. 
remove a bay from the grid click the Remove Bay grip. 
change the start offset of the grid select the Start Offset grip and move it to the appropriate position. 
If you want to … Then … 
change the end offset of the grid select the End Offset grip and move it to the appropriate position. 
change the spacing of bays click the Auto Grid Bay Spacing grip and move it to the appropriate po­sition. 
manually edit the grid click Edit In Place tab . Division 
panel . Convert To Manual
 . You can manually add and remove gridlines, change the offsets, and change the position of individual gridlines. 
use a worksheet to edit the cell di-click the Fixed Cell Dimension Rules mensions grip, and edit the values in the worksheet. 
6 Save or discard changes to the curtain wall grid: 
If you want to … Then … 
save the changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
discard all changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Cancel
 . 
7 In the Save Changes dialog box, specify to which division to save the changes: 
If you want to … Then … If you want to … Then … 
save the changes to the style in the  verify the current division is selected  
current curtain wall division  for Save Changes to Existing Divi­ 
sion, and click Save. The changes  
are made in the style and affect all  
curtain walls of that style in the  
drawing.  

create an override to the style by  click New, enter a name for the  
saving the changes in a new curtain  new division override, and click OK.  
wall division  Click Save. The changes are saved  
as an override to the style, and af­ 
fect only the curtain walls to which  
the override is applied.  

Removing Curtain Wall Overrides 
Use this procedure to remove curtain wall overrides either from the curtain wall or the curtain wall style. 
1 Select the curtain wall. 
If you want to remove an Then … override … 
from a curtain wall expand Advanced in the Properties palette, and click Overrides. 
from the curtain wall style click Curtain Wall tab . General panel . Edit Style drop-down . Edit Style.Then, click the Overrides tab. 
2 Select an override from the list and click Remove. 3 Click OK. 
Modifying Element Definitions for Curtain Wall Styles 
Use this procedure to modify existing elements in a curtain wall style. A curtain wall consists of division, infill, frame and mullion elements, all of which are defined in the design rules of the curtain wall style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall style that you want to change. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, click Element Definitions. The list of element types is displayed. 
Element definitions list 

6 Decide the type of elements you want to edit: 
If you want to modify … Then … 
a division definition click Divisions under Element Definitions. In the right pane, select the division definition you want to modify and edit it as described in Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Grids on page 1428. 
an infill definition click Infills under Element Defini­tions. In the right pane, select the infill definition you want to modify and edit it as described in Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
a frame definition click Frames under Element Defini­tions. In the right pane, select the frame definition you want to modify and edit it as described in Defining Curtain Wall Frames on page 1447. 
If you want to modify … Then … 
a mullion definition click Mullions under Element Definitions. In the right pane, select the mullion definition you want to modify and edit it as described in Defining Curtain Wall Mullions on page 1454. 
7 Click OK twice. 
Editing Curtain Walls 
Most relevant settings for a curtain wall are defined in the curtain wall style. These include divisions, infills, frames, and mullions. For information on modifying a curtain wall style, see Curtain Wall Styles on page 1422. 
You can make other changes directly to individual curtain walls. These changes affect only the curtain wall you select: 
¦ 
Dimensions of a curtain wall 

¦ 
Roof and floor line settings 

¦ 
Interference conditions 

¦ 
Cleanup settings 


Methods of Editing Curtain Walls 
AutoCAD Architecture offers several methods for editing curtain walls: 
¦ 
You can directly edit curtain walls using grips for dimensions, base height, location, and other physical characteristics. 

¦ 
You can directly edit curtain walls using the Edit Grid grip for grid divisions, cells, frames, and mullions. For more information, see In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Divisions on page 1517, In-Place Editing of Edge Profiles for Curtain Walls on page 1509 and Overriding Curtain Wall Infills on page 1493. 

¦ 
You can change curtain wall settings on the Properties palette. You can also use the Display tab of the Properties palette to change the display property settings for a selected object display component in the current display representation. For more information, see Using the Properties Palette to Change Display Properties on page 779. 


¦ 
You can select editing commands from the context menu for a selected curtain wall. 

¦ 
For grip edit operations where you are changing a dimension or an angle, the Dynamic Input feature lets you enter a precise value instead of moving a grip. When this feature is active (click DYN on the application status bar), selecting a grip displays a text box in which you can enter the desired value for the associated dimension or angle. For more information, see “Use Dynamic Input” in AutoCAD Help. 


Using Grips to Edit Curtain Walls 
There are many different curtain wall grips. The grips that appear in your drawing when you select a curtain wall are dependent upon the design rules of the curtain wall. For more information, see Curtain Wall Styles on page 1422. 
Editing Curtain Wall Dimensions 
Use this procedure to change the dimensions of a curtain wall. 
1 Select the curtain wall. 
2 Select the grip for the dimension you want to change. You can modify the dimensions of the length, roof line, floor line, and base height for a curtain wall. 
Viewing Curtain Wall Lengthen and Base Height grips 

3 Enter a value for the dimension and press ENTER, or drag the grip until the dimension value you want is displayed. 
Changing the Location or Position of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the location or the position of a curtain wall with grips. 
1 Select the curtain wall. 
2 Select the appropriate grip to change the location of the curtain wall, its start point, or its endpoint. 
Viewing Curtain Wall Start, End, Location, and Reverse Direction Grips 

In Model view, the Location grip has three possible edit modes: Edit Along Object’s XY Plane, Edit Along Object’s YZ Plane, and Edit Along Object’s XZ Plane. Press CTRL to cycle between modes until you are in the desired mode. The default edit mode is along the XY plane. In Plan view, the Location grip is restricted to movement in one plane. 
3 Move the curtain wall to the desired location and click once, or 
enter a value and press ENTER. If you want to enter a specific value for the second direction in any edit mode (for example, in the Y direction when editing along the XY plane), press TAB to cycle to the second direction. 
You can also lock the movement of the curtain wall along a specific direction. If you enter a value for either of the dimension directions in the current edit mode and then press TAB, the movement of the curtain wall is constrained to the second dimension direction. When editing along the XY plane, for example, you can enter a value for X dimension, and then press TAB. The X dimension is locked at that value, and movement of the curtain wall is constrained to the Y dimension direction. 
Viewing Curtain Wall Location Grip 

4 Right-click, and click Deselect All to turn off grips. 
Changing the Base Height of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the base height of a curtain wall with grips. 1 Select the curtain wall. 2 Select the Base Height grip, move the grip until the height value you want is displayed, and click once. 
NOTE As you move the grip, the original base height value is displayed in addition to the new base height and the difference between the two values. 

After selecting the grip, you can also enter a new value for the base height of the curtain wall. 
Changing the Length of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the length of a curtain wall with grips. 1 Select the curtain wall. 2 Select the Lengthen grip, move the grip until the length value you want is displayed, and click once. 
NOTE As you move the grip, the original length value is displayed in addition to the new length and the difference between the two values. 

After selecting the grip, you can also enter a new value for the 
length of the curtain wall. 
Changing the Radius of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the radius of a curved curtain wall with grips. 
1 Select the curtain wall. 
2 Select the Curve Radius grip, move the grip until the radius value you want is displayed, and click once. 
NOTE As you move the grip, the original radius value is displayed in addition to the new radius and the difference between the two values. 

After selecting the grip, you can also enter a new value for the 
radius of the curtain wall. 
Reversing the Direction of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the direction in which a curtain wall is drawn by reversing the start point and the end point of the curtain wall with grips. 
Curtain walls are drawn from the first specified point to the last point. Some commands and properties are affected by that order. 
To determine the direction in which a curtain wall was drawn, select the curtain wall. The Reverse Direction grip is shaped like an arrow and points in the direction in which the curtain wall has been drawn. 
1 Select the curtain wall for which you want to reverse the direction. 
2 Click on the Reverse Direction grip. The direction of the wall is reversed, which switches the Start and End grips. 
Selecting a Different Curtain Wall Style 
Use this procedure to select a different style for the curtain wall on the Properties palette. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall for which you want to change the 
style. You can select multiple curtain walls and change the style for all at the same time. 
2 On the Properties palette, scroll to the General subcategory. 3 Select a different style. 

Applying the Properties of an Existing Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to apply the properties of a curtain wall tool to one or more existing curtain walls. The properties include the curtain wall style and any other settings specified in the tool you select. 
1 Open the tool palette that you want to use. If necessary, scroll to display the tool that you want to use. 
2 Right-click a curtain wall tool, and click Apply Tool Properties to . Curtain Wall. 
3 Select the curtain wall(s), and press ENTER. The properties of the selected curtain wall(s) match the properties of the curtain wall tool. 
Changing the Dimensions of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the dimensions of a curtain wall on the Properties palette. 
1 Double-click a curtain wall. 2 On the Properties palette, expand Dimensions. 3 Change the dimension: 
Dimension Description 
Base Height Height of the curtain wall from the baseline 
Length Length of a straight curtain wall from the start grip on the baseline to the end grip 
Radius (curved curtain walls only) Radius of a curved curtain wall from the start grip on the baseline to the end grip 
Start Miter Angle of all infills and horizontal edges (frame or mullion) at the start of the curtain wall: for more inform­ation about miter angles, see Mitering Curtain Walls on page 1536. 
Dimension Description 
End Miter Angle of all infills and horizontal edges (frame or mullion) at the end of the curtain wall 
Changing the Curtain Wall Location Properties 
Use this procedure to relocate a curtain wall by changing the coordinate values of its insertion point. The curtain wall also has an orientation with respect to the WCS or the current UCS. For example, if the top and bottom of the curtain wall are parallel to the XY plane, its normal is parallel to the Z axis. You can change the orientation of the curtain wall by aligning its normal with another axis. You can also rotate the curtain wall on its plane by changing the rotation angle. 
For information about the world coordinate system (WCS) and the user coordinate system (UCS), see “Use Coordinates and Coordinate Systems” in AutoCAD Help. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall you want to change. 2 Expand Location. 3 Click Additional information. 4 Specify the location of the curtain wall: 
If you want to … Then … 
relocate the curtain wall enter new coordinate values under Insertion Point. 
locate the curtain wall on the XY make the normal of the wall parallel plane to the Z axis: under Normal, enter 1 for Z, and enter 0 for X and Y. 
locate the curtain wall on the YZ make the normal of the curtain wall 
plane parallel to the X axis: under Normal, enter 1 for X and enter 0 for Y and Z. 
locate the curtain wall on the XZ  make the normal of the curtain wall  
plane  parallel to the Y axis: under Normal,  

If you want to … Then … 
enter 1 for Y, and enter0 for X and Z. 
change the rotation of the curtain enter a new value for Rotation wall Angle. 
5 Click OK. 
Adding an Interference Condition to a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to add an interference condition to a curtain wall. Interference conditions use the geometry of 3D objects to create custom openings or cutouts in curtain walls. You can specify how the interference condition is applied to the curtain wall: added to the curtain wall, subtracted from the curtain wall, or ignored. 
You can specify whether the interference condition applies to an infill, frame, or mullions of a curtain wall. 
1 Place the object in the location where you want to specify the interference condition. 
2 Select the curtain wall to which you want to add an interference condition. 
3 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Interference 
drop-down . Add
 . 
4 Select the object intersecting the curtain wall, and press ENTER. 
5 Specify to which curtain wall component the interference should 
be added: 
If you want to add the interfer-Then … ence condition … 
to the infill enter y (Yes) when prompted for the infill component. 
to the frame enter y (Yes) when prompted for the frame component. 
to the mullion enter y (Yes) when prompted for the mullion component. 
6 Press ENTER. 
Removing an Interference Condition from a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to remove an object, such as a mass element, from a curtain wall that the object was added to as an interference condition. 
1 Select the curtain wall from which you want to remove an interference object. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Interference 
drop-down . Remove
 . 3 Select the object intersecting the curtain wall, and press ENTER. 
Mitering Curtain Walls 
Use this procedure to miter the corners where curtain walls meet. The corner where adjacent curtain walls meet is not mitered by default. However, you can determine the necessary angles automatically. 
The miter angle applies to all infills and horizontal edges (frame or mullion) that are adjacent to the corner. Vertical edges are not affected. 
TIP If you want to create a custom corner condition between two curtain walls, you can replace the edge of one curtain wall with an AEC profile and remove the edge of the other curtain wall by using the frame override Remove Edge option. For more information, see Overriding Curtain Wall Frames and Mullions on page 1503 and Defining Curtain Wall Frames on page 1447. 
1 Select one of the curtain walls. 
2 Click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Set Miter Angles
 . 3 Select the other curtain wall. If you change the angle of either curtain wall, use Set Miter Angles again to recalculate the angles. 
Specifying a Miter Angle for a Curtain Wall Adjacent to Another Object 
Use this procedure to manually create a mitered corner between a curtain wall and another object, such as a standard wall or a mass element. For example, if your curtain wall connects with a standard wall that is at a 60-degree angle from the curtain wall, you would set the miter angle to 30. 
The miter angle applies to all infills and horizontal edges that are adjacent to the corner. Vertical edges are not affected. 
TIP To quickly identify the start and end of a curtain wall, select the curtain wall. The Reverse Direction grip points toward the end of the curtain wall. 
Frame miter angles for a curtain wall 

1 Double-click the curtain wall. 2 Expand Dimensions. 3 Miter the curtain wall on the start or the end point: 
If you want to miter the curtain Then … wall … 
at its start point enter an angle for Start Miter, and press ENTER. 
at its end point enter an angle for End Miter, and press ENTER. 
Specifying the Cut Plane Display of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to specify the properties of one or more cut planes for an individual curtain wall. Cut plane display properties apply only to display representations, such as Plan, that are used in the Top view (plan view) of a drawing. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall. 2 On the Properties palette, click the Display tab. 3 Under the General category, for Display component, verify that 
*NONE* is selected. 4 For Display controlled by, select This object. 
NOTE To apply your changes to all curtain walls in the drawing, select Drawing default setting. To apply changes to all curtain walls of this style, select Curtain Wall Style:<style name>. For more information on styles, see Curtain Wall Styles on page 1422. 
5 If necessary, expand Object Display Properties . Cut Plane. 
6 For Override cut plane, specify whether you want to override the global cut plane defined for the current display configuration. 7 If you selected Yes for Override cut plane, enter a value for Height 
to define the cut plane for this object. 8 For Use cut plane of containing object when anchored, specify whether you want the containing object’s cut plane to be used when the curtain wall is anchored to that object. 
9 To define additional cut planes for the curtain wall, click Manual cut planes. 

10 On the Manual Above and Below Cut Plane Heights worksheet, click Add, and under Cut Plane, enter the height of the new cut plane. 
If you add a cut plane … Then … 
at a height that is lower than the objects are displayed using the 
current cut plane Layer/Color/Linetype properties specified for the Below Cut Plane component of the object. 
at a height that is higher than the  objects are displayed using the  
current cut plane  Layer/Color/Linetype properties  

If you add a cut plane … Then … 
specified for the Above Cut Plane component of the object. 
You can click Remove to delete a cut plane that you added. 
You can also access and modify these same cut plane settings through the curtain wall’s context menu, as follows 
1 Select the curtain wall you want to change, right-click, and click Edit Object Display. 
2 In the Object Display dialog, click the Display Properties tab. The current display representation is displayed in bold. 
3 Select the display representation where you want the changes to appear, and select Object Override. If Object Override is already 
selected, click 
at the upper-right corner of the tab. 
4 In the Display Properties dialog, click the Cut Plane tab, and then change the settings as needed. 
5 Click OK twice. 
Specifying the Display of Other Characteristics of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to specify other display properties for a curtain wall, including cell marker size, the display of miters at frame corners, and the display of custom components. If you are going to use custom graphics for a component, draw the component and save it as a block before you start this procedure. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall. 2 On the Properties palette, click the Display tab. 3 Under the General category, for Display component, verify that 
*NONE* is selected. 4 For Display controlled by, select This object. 
NOTE To apply your changes to all curtain walls in the drawing, select Drawing default setting. To apply changes to all curtain walls of this style, select Curtain Wall Style:<style name>. For more information on styles, see Curtain Wall Styles on page 1422. 
5 If necessary, expand Object Display Properties . Advanced. 6 If you want to change the size of the markers used for cells in the curtain wall grid, click Cell marker size, and enter a new value. 
(Alternatively, you can click 
and specify 2 points in the drawing area to set the new size.) 7 Optionally, for Show mitres at frame corners, select Yes/No. 8 If you want to add or edit a custom component, for Custom model components (or for Custom plan components, if in a plan view), 
click 
. 9 On the Custom Model (or Plan) Components worksheet, click Add, or select one of the components in the list, and click Edit. 10 On the Custom Display Component worksheet, for Component Type, select Infill, Frame, or Mullion. 11 Enter a name for Component Name, or click Select Component, and in the Select <component type> Definition dialog, select a 
definition and click OK. 
12 Select Draw Custom Graphics. 
13 Specify the display of the element: 
If you want to … Then … 
display the block instead of the as-select Replace Graphics. sociated curtain wall element 
superimpose the block over the clear Replace Graphics. curtain wall element so that both are displayed 
14 Click Select Block, select the custom block that you created, and click OK. 
15 Specify further settings for the custom display block: 
If you want to … Then … 
scale the block to fit a particular di-select Width, Height, or Depth. To mension prevent the block from losing its proportions, select Lock XY Ratio. 
specify how the block is inserted specify an insertion point on the X, into the grid in the X, Y, and Z dir-Y, and Z planes. ections 
If you want to … Then … 
mirror the block determine whether it should mirror in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
offset the block from the grid specify the offset in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
16 Click OK twice. 
Attaching Hyperlinks, Notes, or Files to a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to enter notes and attach reference files to a curtain wall. You can also edit notes and edit or detach reference files from a curtain wall. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall. 2 On the Properties palette, click the Extended Data tab. 3 To add a hyperlink, click the setting for Hyperlink, and specify 
the link. 4 To add a note, click the setting for Notes, and enter the text. 5 Click OK. 6 To attach a reference file, click under Reference documents, and 
attach, edit, or detach a reference file: 
If you want to … Then … 
attach a reference file click Add, select a file, and click Open. 
edit the description of a reference select the file, and click the descrip­file tion. Enter the new text, and press ENTER. 
edit a reference file double-click the reference file name to start its application. 
detach a reference file select the file name, and click De­lete. 
7 Click OK twice. 
Changing the Roof Line and the Floor Line of a Curtain Wall 
You can modify the roof and floor lines of a curtain wall to create a non-rectangular curtain wall: 
¦ You edit vertex locations on the roof line to create steps, gables, and other roof conditions. 
Modifying the roof line of a curtain wall 

¦ You edit vertex locations on the floor lines to create steps and other floor conditions. 
Modifying the floor line of a curtain wall 

You can also create non-rectangular roof and floor conditions by projecting to polylines. 
AutoCAD Architecture offers multiple methods of editing roof lines and floor lines. You may want to begin by graphically creating a custom roof line or floor line condition. You can then fine-tune that condition by specifying precise values in the Roof/Floor Line worksheet on the Properties palette. 
Offsetting or Projecting the Roof Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the height or the shape of the roof line of a curtain wall: 
¦ Offset the roof line from the current height of the curtain wall. 
¦ 
Project the roof line of the curtain wall to a polyline. 

¦ 
Project the roof line of the curtain wall to another object, such as a roof or stairs. 


You can also create a polyline that represents the current roof line of the selected curtain wall. You can then use this polyline to change the roof line of other curtain walls. 
NOTE To project the roof line to a polyline, draw the polyline first in Elevation view. For best results, the polyline should be parallel to the curtain wall. The polyline does not need to be in the same plane as the curtain wall. 
1 Select a curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Modify Roof Line
 . The current roof line is the default value in the curtain wall style. 2 Change the roof line of the wall: 
If you want to … Then … 
offset the roof line from the current  enter o (Offset), select the curtain  
height of the curtain wall  walls to change, and enter an offset  
distance. Enter a negative value to  
project the roof line below the cur­ 
rent curtain wall height.  

project the roof line to a polyline enter p (Project), select the curtain walls to change, and select the polyline. 
generate a polyline of the current enter g (Generate), and select the roof line curtain walls for the polyline to be created from. 
project the roof line to another ob­ject, such as a roof or stairs 
enter a (Auto-project), select the curtain walls to change, and select the object to project to. When pro­jecting to stairs, make sure that the bottom riser or the stringer does not create a zero-height segment of curtain wall. 
If you want to … Then … 
remove any changes to the roof line enter r (Reset), and select the cur­tain walls to change. 
3 Press ENTER. The new roof line value is used only on the selected curtain walls. The curtain wall style is unchanged. 
Offsetting or Projecting the Floor Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the height or the shape of the floor line of a curtain wall: 
¦ 
Offset the floor line from the current baseline of the curtain wall. 

¦ 
Project the floor line of the curtain wall to a polyline. 

¦ 
Project the floor line of the curtain wall to another object, such as a floor slab or stairs. 


You can also create a polyline that represents the current floor line of the selected curtain walls. You can then use this polyline to change the floor line of other curtain walls. 
NOTE To project the floor line to a polyline, draw the polyline first in Elevation view. For best results, the polyline should be parallel to the curtain wall. The polyline does not need to be in the same plane as the curtain wall. 
1 Select a curtain wall, and click click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Modify Floor Line
 . The current floor line is the default value in the curtain wall style. 2 Change the floor line of the curtain wall: 
If you want to … Then … If you want to … Then … 
offset the floor line from the current  enter o (Offset), select the curtain  
baseline of the curtain wall  walls to change, and enter an offset  
distance. Enter a negative value to  
offset the floor line below the cur­ 
rent baseline.  

project the floor line to a polyline enter p (Project), select the curtain walls to change, and select the polyline. 
generate a polyline of the current enter g (Generate), and select the floor line curtain walls for the polyline to be created from. 
project the floor line to another enter a (Auto-project), select the object, such as a floor slab or stairs curtain walls to change, and select the object to project to. 
remove any changes to the floor enter r (Reset), and select the cur-line tain walls to change. 
3 Press ENTER. The new floor line value is used only in the selected curtain wall. The curtain wall style is unchanged. 
Editing the Roof Line or the Floor Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to edit the geometry of the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall: 
¦ 
Add, modify, or remove gables. 

¦ 
Add, modify, or remove steps. 

¦ 
Project the roof line or the floor line to a polyline or to other objects, such as roofs, roof slabs, slabs, and stairs. 

¦ 
Create custom roof line or floor line conditions by adding and adjusting vertices and edges. 

¦ 
Reverse the roof line or the floor line of the curtain wall without reversing the curtain wall itself. 

¦ 
Remove all changes to the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall. 


You can also edit the roof line and the floor line on the Roof/Floor Line worksheet on the Properties palette. For more information, see Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1552. 
NOTE If you want to project the roof line or the floor line to a polyline, draw the polyline before you start this procedure. 
1 Select the curtain wall that you want to change, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Edit 
In Place
 . A temporary profile is created for you to edit the geometry of the roof line or the floor line. 
2 Edit the profile: 
If you want to … Then … 
add a gable to the roof line or the click Edit In Place tab . Profile floor line 
panel . Add Gable
 . Then, se­lect the roof line or the floor line. 
add a step to the roof line or the click Edit In Place tab . Profile floor line 
panel . Add Step
 . Then, select the roof line or the floor line. 
change the shape of the roof line select the profile, and use Vertex or the floor line and Edge grips to adjust the shape. 
add vertices to the roof line or the select the profile, right-click and floor line click Add Vertex. Select a point for each new vertex, and press ENTER. 
remove vertices from the roof line select the profile, right-click and or the floor line click Remove Vertex. Select each vertex to remove, and press ENTER. 
project the roof line or the floor line  click Edit In Place tab . Profile  
to a polyline  panel . Project To Polyline  .  
Select the roof line or the floor line,  
and select the polyline. Press ENTER  
to keep the geometry, or enter n  
(No) to erase it.  

If you want to … Then … 
project the roof line or the floor line click Edit In Place tab . Profile to another object, such as a stair or 
panel . Auto Project
 . Selecta roof the roof line or the floor line, and select the object. 
reverse the roof line or the floor line click Edit In Place tab . Profile 
panel . Reverse
 . Select the roof line or the floor line. 
restore the roof line to the base click Edit In Place tab . Profile height of the curtain wall, or restore 
panel . Remove
 . Select thethe floor line to the baseline of the roof line or the floor line.
curtain wall 
NOTE To add a gable or a step to a roof line or a floor line that has been edited, first use the Remove command on the contextual ribbon tab to remove an existing roof line or floor line condition. 
3 Save or discard the changes: 
If you want to … Then … 
restore the roof line and the floor click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan-line to their shape before editing 
el . Cancel
 . 
save the changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
Changing the Roof Line and the Floor Line 
Use this procedure to change the height or the shape of the roof line and the floor line using grips. 
1 Select a curtain wall. 
2 Select a Roof Line End or Floor Line End grip, move the grip to the appropriate position, and click once. 


Adding a Gable to the Roof Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to add a gable to the roof line of a curtain wall. You can also add a gable on the Roof/Floor Line worksheet on the Properties palette. 
For more information, see Specifying Gable Settings for a Roof Line on page 1554. 
NOTE This option is available only if the roof line has not been edited. After the roof line changes, you cannot add a gable using this option. To add a gable to a roof line that has been edited, see Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1552. 
1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify 
panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Edit In Place
 . A temporary profile is created for you to edit the geometry of the Roof line. 
2 Click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Add Gable
 . If Add Gable cannot be selected, the roof line was previously edited. 
3 Select the roof line. Modifying a curtain wall roof line by adding a gable 

A third vertex is added to the roof line halfway between the two ends of the roof line. 
4 Continue editing the roof line or the floor line, if needed. For more information, see Changing the Roof Line and the Floor Line on page 1547. 
5 Save or discard the changes: 
If you want to … Then … 
restore the roof line and the floor click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan-line to their shape before editing 
el . Cancel
 . 
save the changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
Adding a Step to the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to add a step to the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall. You can also add a step on the Roof/Floor Line worksheet on the Properties palette. For more information, see Specifying Step Settings for a Roof Line or Floor Line on page 1555. 
NOTE This option is available only when the roof line or the floor line has not been edited. After the line has been changed, you cannot automatically add a step using this option. To add a step to a roof line or a floor line that has been edited, see Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1552. 
1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Edit In Place
 . A temporary profile is created for you to edit the geometry of the Roof line. 
2 Click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Add Step
 . If Add Step cannot be selected, the roof line or the floor line was previously edited. 3 Select the roof line or the floor line. 
Modifying a curtain wall floor line by adding a step 

A third vertex is added to the line halfway between the two ends of the line and four feet from the line. A step is created from the selected vertex to the second vertex. 
4 Continue editing the roof line or the floor line, if needed. For more information, see Changing the Roof Line and the Floor Line on page 1547. 
5 Save or discard the changes: 
If you want to … Then … 
restore the roof line and the floor click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan-line to their shape before editing 
el . Cancel
 . 
save the changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to perform the following tasks: 
¦ Add, move, or remove vertices and edges in the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall. 
¦ 
Add gables or steps to a roof line or steps to a floor line that was previously edited by adding vertices that define these conditions. 

¦ 
Remove all changes to the roof line or the floor line, restoring the original base height or baseline of a curtain wall. 


NOTE You can also edit vertices in a curtain wall with the curtain wall worksheets. For information, see Specifying Vertex Settings for a Roof Line or Floor Line on page 1556. 
1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Edit In Place
 . A temporary profile is created for you to edit the geometry of the Roof line. 
2 Edit the vertices: 
If you want to … Then … 
change the position of a vertex or select its grip and move it to the an edge appropriate position. 
add a vertex select the profile, right-click and click Add Vertex. Select a point for each new vertex, and press ENTER. 
remove a vertex select the profile, right-click and click Remove Vertex. Select each vertex to remove, and press ENTER. 
restore the original roof line or floor click Edit In Place tab . Profile line 
panel . Remove
 . Select the roof line or the floor line. 
3 Save the changes to the curtain wall: 
If you want to … Then … 
restore the roof line and the floor click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan-line to their shape before editing 
el . Cancel
 . 
If you want to … Then … 
save the changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
Specifying Gable Settings for a Roof Line 
Use this procedure to add a gable to the roof line of a curtain wall by adding a vertex to the roofline. 
Modifying a curtain wall roof line by adding a gable 

NOTE This option is available only if the roof line has not been edited. After the roof line changes, you cannot add a gable using this option. To add a gable to a roof line that has been edited, see Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1552. 
1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Roof/Floor Line Settings

 . 2 Select Edit Roof Line or Edit Floor Line. 3 Click Add Gable. 
A third vertex is added to the roof line halfway between the two ends of the roof line. 
The table at the top of the dialog box displays information about each vertex in the curtain wall. You can also select the vertex to edit from the list. 

4 Click OK. 
Specifying Step Settings for a Roof Line or Floor Line 
Use this procedure to add a step to the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall. 
Modifying a curtain wall roof line by adding a gable 

NOTE This option is available only when the roof line or the floor line has not been edited. After the line has been changed, you cannot automatically add a step using this option. To add a step to a roof line or a floor line that has been edited, see Changing Vertices in the Roof Line or Floor Line of a Curtain Wall on page 1552. 
1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Roof/Floor Line Settings

 . 2 Select Edit Roof Line or Edit Floor Line. 3 Click Add Step. 
A third vertex is added to the line halfway between the two ends of the line. A step is created from the selected vertex to the second vertex. 
The table at the top displays information about each vertex in the curtain wall. You can select a vertex to edit from the list. 

4 Click OK. 
Specifying Vertex Settings for a Roof Line or Floor Line 
Use this procedure to perform the following tasks: 
¦ 
Add, move, or remove vertices in the roof line or the floor line of a curtain wall. 

¦ 
Add gables or steps to a roof line or steps to a floor line that was previously edited by adding vertices that define these conditions. 


1 Select the curtain wall, and click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Roof/Floor Line drop-down . Roof/Floor Line Settings

 . 2 Select Edit Roof Line or Edit Floor Line. The active vertex in the illustration changes when you select a different line to edit. Any changes you make to the wall are reflected in the illustration. 
3 Specify vertex settings: 
If you want to … Then … 
add a vertex click Insert Vertex. In the Wall Roof/Floor Line Vertex dialog box, specify the horizontal offset and vertical offset for the new vertex, specify a distance, and click OK. 
move a vertex select a vertex from the list, and then click Edit Vertex. 
delete a vertex select a vertex from the list, and then click Delete Vertex. The selec­ted vertex is deleted, and the line automatically connects the two ad­jacent vertices. 
4 Specify the horizontal offset. The horizontal offset specifies the existing vertex from which to measure the placement of the next vertex and how far away from the existing vertex to place the new one. Distance is measured in the direction the curtain wall is drawn. You can enter a negative number to offset the vertex in the reverse direction. 
5 Specify the vertical offset. The vertical offset specifies the location from which to measure the height of the next vertex and how far away from the existing location to place the new vertex. You can enter a negative number to offset the vertex toward the ground. 
6 Click OK twice. 
Editing Objects Anchored in Curtain Walls 
When you fill a curtain wall cell with an infill that contains an object, such as a door or window, you can edit that object independently from the curtain wall. For example, you can select a door from a curtain wall and edit its properties. You can edit the anchor settings for the door to change the orientation of the door and the alignment or offset of the door in relation to the curtain wall. 
You can also move objects from one cell to another or release the object anchor so that the object moves independently of the curtain wall. 
When you move or release an object or edit its properties, you are creating a variation from the infill cell assignment for the curtain wall style. By default, these variations (except release) are allowed to persist in the drawing when you reapply the style to a curtain wall. However, if you want these variations to be overridden when you reapply a curtain wall style, turn off the Allow Variation from Infill Element Definition option on the Anchor worksheet of the Properties palette of the object. This option is set on a per object basis. 
Changing the Orientation of an Object Anchored in a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the orientation of an object anchored in a curtain wall using grips. 
1 Click the object in the curtain wall for which you want to change the orientation. 
2 Click the appropriate Flip grip to change the X or Y direction of 
the object. You can also change the orientation of an object, including the Z direction, using the Anchor worksheet found on the object’s Properties palette. 
Changing the Alignment of an Object Anchored in a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to modify the alignment of an object that is anchored in a curtain wall. 
1 Double-click the object in the curtain wall. 2 Expand Location, and click Anchor. 
3 Click Allow Variation from Infill Element Definition. 
4 Select a new alignment for the object. For more information, see Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1444. 
5 Click OK. 
Changing the Offset of an Object Anchored in a Curtain Wall 
Use this procedure to change the offset of an object anchored in a curtain wall. 
1 Double-click the object in the curtain wall. 2 Expand Location, and click Anchor. 3 Click Allow Variation from Infill Element Definition. 4 Specify a new offset for the object. 
For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Infill on page 1445. 
5 Click OK. 
Swapping Two Objects Anchored in a Curtain Wall 
When you fill a curtain wall cell with an object, such as a door or window, you can swap that object with another object in the curtain wall. 
1 Select one of the objects from the curtain wall, right-click, and click Infill Anchor . Swap Objects. 
2 Select the object you want to swap with. 
Releasing an Object Anchored in a Curtain Wall 
When you fill a curtain wall cell with an object, such as a door or window, that object is anchored to the curtain wall. While the anchor is in place, the object moves when you move the curtain wall and is removed when you erase the curtain wall. If you want to move or erase an object independently from the curtain wall, you can release the anchor of the object. 
NOTE You can also move or erase the object by changing the element definition for the cell that contains the object. For more information, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Cells on page 1441. 
¦ Select one of the objects from the curtain wall, right-click, and click Infill Anchor . Release. 
Curtain Wall Units 
Curtain wall units are an important building block of curtain walls. 
The Concept of Curtain Wall Units 
Curtain wall units can significantly reduce the complexity of the curtain wall design and, thereby, the necessary design time. 
You can think of a curtain wall unit as a “mini” curtain wall itself, which can have frames, mullions and divisions, but is normally not a standalone building object. A curtain wall unit is used in the larger context of a curtain wall. You usually assign curtain wall units to specific cells within a curtain wall grid. For more information, see Inserting an Object into a Curtain Wall Cell on page 1471. 
Curtain Wall Unit Styles 
Curtain wall units are style-based, permitting maximum efficiency and flexibility. Curtain wall unit styles are created and edited independently from the curtain wall style. You can use a curtain wall unit style in different curtain wall styles. For example, you can create a decorative three-tiled panel as a curtain wall unit and use that for several curtain wall styles. 
Curtain Wall Units and Door/Window Assemblies 
Curtain wall units and door/window assemblies are very similar in their functionality. Both can contain nested grids and be anchored as building blocks in curtain walls. A curtain wall unit usually is not used as a standalone object, whereas a door/window assembly could be. 
Curtain Wall Unit Grids 
Like curtain walls, curtain wall units are made up of one or more grids. Each grid has either a horizontal division or a vertical division, but you can nest the grids to create a variety of patterns. 
Using curtain wall units in a curtain wall can Help you limit the complexity in the curtain wall design. 
Elements of Grids 
Grids are the foundation of curtain walls and curtain wall units. Every grid has four element types: 
¦ 
Divisions: Define the direction of the grid (horizontal or vertical) and the number of cells 

¦ 
Cell Infills: Contain another grid, a panel infill, or an object such as a window or a door 

¦ 
Frames: Define the edge around the outside of the primary grid and nested grids 

¦ 
Mullions: Define the edges between the cells 


NOTE Division is an abstract element, in contrast to the other three element types that represent physical elements of the curtain wall unit. 
Each element type is assigned a default definition that describes what elements of that type look like. 
Element type Default definitions 
Divisions Horizontal grid with two manual divisions offset from the top and bottom of the grid 
Cell Infills Cells containing simple panels 
Frames Outer edges of grid 3" wide and 3" deep 
Mullions Edges between cells 1" wide and 3" deep 
Curtain wall units default element definitions 

Getting Started with Curtain Wall Units 
To get started with curtain wall units, draw a curtain wall unit using one of the methods described in Creating Curtain Wall Units on page 1562. Try a variety of the existing curtain wall unit styles, find a style you like and make a copy of it. Then, modify the element definitions and assignments to suit your own needs. For more information, see Creating Element Definitions for a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1567. 
For more information about element definitions and assignments, see Creating Element Definitions for a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1567 and Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598. 
Creating Curtain Wall Units 
Creating curtain wall units is similar to creating curtain walls. You specify a style, a height, and start and end points. You can also create curtain wall units by converting a 2D layout grid to a curtain wall or converting two-dimensional (2D) lines, arcs, and circles. Unlike curtain walls, you cannot create a curtain wall unit based on a curve. Curtain wall units can only be planar. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to create a curtain wall unit. 
Drawing a curtain wall unit 

1 Click Home tab . Build panel . Wall drop-down . Curtain Wall 
Unit
 . 
2 Select a start point and an end point. 
3 Specify a height for the curtain wall unit. 
4 Select a style, and click OK. 
For information about curtain wall unit styles, see Curtain Wall Unit Styles on page 1567. 
Converting a Layout Grid to a Curtain Wall Unit 
You can create a curtain wall unit grid that is based on a 2D layout grid. If you already have 2D layout grids in a drawing, you can easily convert them to curtain wall units. Or if you are already familiar with layout grids, it is an efficient way to create a curtain wall unit, and then experiment with the curtain wall commands to learn more about them. 
Converting a 2D layout grid to a curtain wall unit 

When you create a curtain wall unit from a 2D layout grid, you also create a new curtain wall unit style. The divisions in the new curtain wall unit style are taken from the divisions in the layout grid. 
Curtain wall unit grids are one-dimensional, divided either horizontally or vertically. To create the horizontal and vertical patterns in the 2D layout grid, the curtain wall unit uses a primary grid with a secondary grid nested inside it. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
When you create a curtain wall unit grid from a 2D layout grid, you need to decide the direction of the primary grid in the curtain wall unit. If you select horizontal, the primary grid has horizontal divisions that cross over the vertical divisions of the secondary grid. If you select vertical, the primary grid has vertical divisions that cross over the horizontal divisions of the secondary grid. 
Specifying primary division directions 

The horizontal and vertical lines of the 2D layout grid define the divisions for the curtain wall unit grids. The grid cells, frame, and mullions are assigned default definitions. 
1 Create a layout grid. For more information, see Using Layout Grids on page 2693. 
2 At the command line, enter cwunit. 3 Enter c (Convert). 4 Enter LA (LayoutGrid). 5 Select the layout grid. 6 To erase the layout grid, enter y (Yes). To have the layout grid 
remain after the curtain wall unit is created, enter n (No). 7 When prompted for the primary division, enter v (Vertical) or h 
(Horizontal) as the orientation. 8 Enter a name for this new curtain wall unit style. 9 Click OK, and press ENTER to end the command. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit with a Custom Grid 
Curtain wall units contain one or more grids. You can define a custom grid with lines, arcs, and circles, and then convert that linework into a curtain wall unit. 
NOTE Curtain wall unit grids are either horizontal or vertical. To create a grid pattern with horizontal and vertical cells, nested grids are used. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
You cannot modify the division definition of a custom grid created from lines, arcs, and circles. You can, however, assign a different division definition to it. For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
1 Use lines, arcs, and circles to draw a grid in the current world coordinate system (WCS). 
2 At the command line, enter cwunit. 
3 Enter c (Convert). 
4 Enter LI (LInework). 
5 Select the lines, arcs, or circles that define your grid. 
6 Press ENTER. 
7 Select one of the grid lines as the baseline for the curtain wall or press ENTER to use the line along the X axis as the baseline. 
Converting linework to curtain walls units using the default baseline option 


TIP If you draw your linework in the XY plane (in Plan view) and accept the default baseline, the resulting curtain wall unit is displayed as it is projected in the Z direction. 
Converting linework to curtain walls using the specified baseline option 

8 To erase the lines, enter y (Yes). To have the lines remain after 
the curtain wall unit is created, enter n (No). Each enclosed area is assigned the default cell infill. The lines between the cells are assigned the default mullion definition, and the boundary around the grid is assigned the default frame definition. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Elements on page 1461. 
9 Select the resulting custom curtain wall unit. 10 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules 
drop-down . Save To Style. 11 Click New to create a new curtain wall unit style. 12 Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style. 13 Click OK twice. 
Curtain Wall Unit Styles 
Curtain wall units are style-based, meaning there are preset characteristics assigned to each curtain wall unit that determine its appearance and function. By changing from one style of curtain wall unit to another, you can quickly study several different design options. Any changes you make to the style are reflected throughout your building, updating all curtain walls that use that particular curtain wall unit style. You can also apply overrides to a single curtain wall unit, without changing other curtain walls of the same style. 
A curtain wall unit style controls the following properties of a curtain wall: 
¦ 
Element definitions 

¦ 
Definition assignments for each element 

¦ 
Materials for each element 

¦ 
Display properties for each element 

¦ 
Notes about the style and any associated reference files 


To create, edit, copy, or purge styles, you access the Style Manager. The Style Manager provides a central location in AutoCAD Architecture where you can work with styles from multiple drawings and templates. For more information about using the Style Manager, see Style Manager Overview on page 856. 
Creating Element Definitions for a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Element definitions determine the appearance of the four basic curtain wall unit elements. There is a different definition type for each element. 
Element type Default definitions 
Divisions Horizontal grid with two manual divisions offset from the top and the bottom of the grid 
Cell Infills Cells containing simple panels 
Frames Left, right, top, and bottom outer edges of grid 3" wide and 3" deep 
Mullions Edges between cells 1" wide and 3" deep 
Each type of element can have multiple definitions. For example, you can define a division to create a horizontal grid or a vertical grid, and you can define the cells to contain a nested grid or a panel infill. To make reuse easier, you can save the element definitions, and then assign them to grids, cells, frames, or mullions as needed. 
Element definitions are style-specific. When you create element definitions for a specific curtain wall unit style, those definitions are available only for curtain wall units of that style. For example, if you define a panel infill for one curtain wall unit style, that infill is not available as an option when you edit a curtain wall unit of a different style. 
For information about defining the color, linetype, or layer of curtain wall elements, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to create a curtain wall unit style. You can create a style using default style properties or by copying an existing style. After you create the style, you edit the style properties to customize the characteristics of the style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit Styles. 
3 Create a new curtain wall style: 
If you want to create a style … Then … 
with default properties right-click Curtain Wall Unit Styles, and click New. 
from an existing style right-click the curtain wall unit style you want to copy, and click Copy. Right-click, and click Paste. 
from a curtain wall, curtain wall right-click Curtain Wall Unit Styles, unit, or door/window assembly in and click New. Right-click the new the drawing style, click Set From, and then pick 
a curtain wall, a curtain wall unit, or a door/window assembly. 
4 Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and press Enter. 
5 Edit the new curtain wall unit style: 
If you want to … Then … 
define the elements of a curtain wall  see Defining Divisions for Curtain  
unit style  Wall Unit Grids on page 1570, Defin­
 
ing Infills for Curtain Wall Unit Cells  
on page 1579, Defining Curtain Wall  
Unit Frames on page 1584, and Defin­
 
ing Curtain Wall Unit Mullions on  
page 1591.  

assign element definitions to the curtain wall unit style 
see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597, Assign­
ing Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598, Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Unit Frames on page 1607, and Assigning Definitions to the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1611. 
add curtain wall element definitions see Adding Curtain Wall Unit Ele­
as display components ment Definitions as Display Com­
ponents on page 1618. 
specify layer, color and linetype see Specifying the Layer, Color, and settings for the display components Linetype of a Curtain Wall Unit Style of a curtain wall on page 1619. 
specify curtain wall unit hatching see Specifying the Hatching for Components of a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1620. 
add custom graphics as display see Adding Custom Graphics as a components of a curtain wall unit Display Component of a Curtain style Wall Unit on page 1621. 
create individual cut planes for cur-see Creating Cut Planes for a Cur­
tain wall unit styles tain Wall Unit on page 1623. 
add notes and files to the style see Attaching Notes and Files to a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1624. 
6 Click OK. 
Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Unit Grids 
The divisions of a grid define the orientation that determines the direction of the grid cells and mullions, and they define a division type that determines the number and size of cells. 
NOTE Creating a nested grid is not a division rule. To create a nested grid, add a cell assignment. For more information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1599 and Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
You can create a variety of division definitions under different names, and then assign different divisions to each grid in your curtain wall unit. Although you can create multiple definitions, there can be only one division assignment per grid. You create division definitions for a specific curtain wall unit style and those definitions can be assigned only to grids in curtain wall units of that style. 
For more information about assigning divisions to a particular grid, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
Division of Curtain Wall Unit Grids 
A curtain wall unit consists of one or more grids, which are the framework for placing design elements in the curtain wall unit. The highest-level grid is the primary grid, which is also the outside edge of the curtain wall unit. 
Each grid in a curtain wall unit has one division assignment that determines whether the grid is divided horizontally or vertically. The division also determines the number of cells, their size and their placement. 
Within the primary grid, you can define multiple levels of grids. These grids within are called nested grids. Each subdivision of a grid is called a cell. 
Creating a Division Definition for a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to create divisions for a curtain wall unit grid. 
Because curtain wall units can contain multiple nested grids, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grids that indicates the level of each grid and the grid location or the purpose within the curtain wall unit. For example, L3-FL1-Stone Panels can identify a third level grid that provides a row of stone panels on Floor 1. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Division. 7 Enter a name for this division definition. 8 Click either Horizontal or Vertical for Orientation. 9 Select one of the following division types and specify offsets if 
needed. 

Division Type Description 
Fixed Cell Dimension Creates a grid where the size of the individual cells is predetermined. For more information, see Specify­
ing a Fixed Size for Cells in a Cur­
tain Wall Unit Grid on page 1572. 
Fixed Number of Cells Creates a grid where the number of grid cells is predetermined. For more information, see Specifying a Fixed Number of Cells for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1575. 
Manual Creates a grid where the size and number of individual cells is manu­ally determined by the user. For more information, see Manually Defining the Number and Size of Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1576. 
After you create a division definition, you can assign the definition to a specific grid in a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
10 When you are finished creating division definitions, click OK. 
Specifying a Fixed Size for Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to define a specific size for the cells in a grid. In this case, the number of cells is determined by the length or height of the grid, depending on how the grid is divided. 
When you specify a fixed cell size in a grid, you can control how the cells of the grid adjust to accommodate any leftover space. This space occurs if the length (or the height) of the curtain wall unit cannot be evenly divided by the fixed size of the cell. For more information, see Using the Auto-Adjust Cells Option to Resize Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1574. 
Specifying a fixed size for cells 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 
7 Select Fixed Cell Dimension for Division Type. 

8 Specify a size for the cells in Cell Dimension. If you are defining a vertical division, the cell dimension is the length of the cell from mullion to mullion. If you are defining a horizontal division, the cell dimension is the height of the cell. 
9 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance in Start Offset or End Offset. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1577. 
TIP The frame width is calculated as part of the cell size. Therefore, cells adjacent to the frame can appear to be a different size than the other cells. If you do not want the frame width included in the cell size, specify an offset for the grid that is equal to the frame width. 
When you draw a curtain wall unit using a fixed cell dimension, there is often extra space between the last full-size cell and the end of the curtain wall unit. 
10 To adjust the cells and accommodate this extra space automatically as you draw curtain wall units, select the Auto-Adjust Cells option. 
11 Adjust the cells to accommodate this extra space: 
If you want to … Then … 
add the space to grid cells select Auto-Adjust Cells, select Grow for Cell Adjustment, and select the specific cells where the space is ad­ded. You can select any combina­tion of specific cells. 
remove the space from grid cells select Auto-Adjust Cells, select Shrink for Cell Adjustment, and se­lect the specific cells where the 
If you want to … Then … 
space is removed. You can select any combination of specific cells. 
For information about offsets, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1577. 
12 Click OK. 
For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall unit, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
Using the Auto-Adjust Cells Option to Resize Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to automatically resize cells in a grid when the result of dividing the grid by the specified cell dimension is not a whole number. 
For example, if a vertical primary grid in a curtain wall unit style is 17 feet in length and you specify a fixed cell dimension of 3 feet, the grid has five cells of 3 feet each with 2 feet remaining. Using the Auto-Adjust Cells option, you can specify how the grid distributes the remaining quantity. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Divisions definition or create a new one. 7 Select Fixed Cell Dimension as the division type. 8 Select Auto-Adjust Cells, and specify the cell adjustment: 
If you want to … Then … 
add the remaining space to grid select Grow, and select the specific cells cells to which you want the space added. 
remove the remaining space from  select Shrink, and select the specific  
grid cells  cells from which you want the  

If you want to … Then … 
space removed. You can then select Maintain at least half of cell dimen­sion in order to control the cell shrinkage. 
The cells that you do not select maintain the fixed value you specified for Cell Dimension. 
Specifying a Fixed Number of Cells for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to define a specific number of cells in a grid. In this case, the size of the cells is determined by the length or height of the grid, depending on how the grid is divided. 
In some cases, when you create a complex curtain wall unit grid, you might want to start with a standard grid with a fixed number of cells, and then later fine-tune that manually. You can first create a grid with fixed cell numbers and then convert that to a manual grid. For information on manual grids, see 
Manually Defining the Number and Size of Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
on page 1576. 
Specifying a fixed number of cells 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 
7 Select Fixed Number of Cells for Division Type. 8 Specify the number of cells. 9 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance for Start 
Offset or End Offset. For more information, see Specifying an 
Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1577. 
NOTE If you want to fine-tune the initial layout with a fixed number of cells, click Convert To Manual Division and edit the grid as described in Manually Defining the Number and Size of Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1576. 
10 Click OK. 
For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall unit, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
Manually Defining the Number and Size of Cells in a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to manually add gridlines and specify an offset for each one when you need to create a unique grid that does not fit into any of the other division types. You can also start with a fixed cell dimension grid or a fixed number of cells grid, and then manually adjust the grid lines to suit your needs. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Select Manual for Division Type. 8 Click the Add Gridline icon to insert a grid line. Insert as many 
grid lines as you need. If you need to remove a grid line, select it from the table and click the Remove Gridline icon. 9 Under Offset in the gridline table, specify an offset distance for each grid line. 
Gridline offset 

10 Under From in the grid line table, select the grid location from which the grid line is offset. 
Offset grid line from option 

11 To specify an offset for the grid, enter an offset distance for Start 
Offset or End Offset. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1577. 
12 Click OK. For information about assigning the division definition to a specific grid in your curtain wall, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
By default, grids cells are measured from the start and end points of the curtain wall unit baseline. The width of the grid frame is not considered in calculating the size of the cell. For example, if you draw a curtain wall unit with a 14' baseline and a 1' frame on the left and right, and you specify a fixed number of vertical cells, the cells do not appear equal in size. The first and last cells appear smaller because they include the frame. To make the cells equal in size, offset the start and end of the grid by the width of the frame. 
Specifying grid offset directions 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition or create a new one. 7 Specify an offset for the grid: 
If you want to specify the dis-Then … tance between … 
the start point of the curtain wall enter a value for Start Offset. baseline and the start of the first cell in a horizontal grid 
the end point of the curtain wall enter a value for End Offset. baseline and the end of the last cell in a horizontal grid 
the floor line of the curtain wall and enter a value for Bottom Offset. the start of the first cell in a vertical grid 
If you want to specify the dis-Then … tance between … 
the roof line of the curtain wall and enter a value for Top Offset. the end of the top cell in a vertical grid 
8 Click OK. 
Removing a Division Definition from a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to remove a division definition that you no longer need. You cannot remove a division definition when it is currently assigned to a grid. In addition, you cannot remove the default division definition, but you can modify it. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Divisions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a Division definition that you want to remove. 7 Click Remove Division. 8 Click OK. 
Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Unit Cells 
An infill defines the contents of a curtain wall unit cell. A curtain wall unit cell can have the default simple panel or contain a nested grid, an AEC Polygon, door, window, or door/window assembly style. The object styles you use in infills must exist in the current drawing to be added to an infill definition. Panels typically represent glazing or other plain cladding, such as stone or concrete. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598. 
NOTE Nested grids and no infill are options you select when assigning an infill to cell. These options do not require infill definitions. For information, see Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1599 and Removing an Infill Definition from a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1584. 
You can define as many infills as you need, and then use cell assignments to specify the cells that use each infill. You can modify, a default infill that is used for all unassigned cells. 
NOTE Create infill definitions for a specific curtain wall unit style. Those definitions can be assigned only to grid cells in curtain wall units of that style. 
Materials 
Styles use the materials of the object style assigned to each panel. For example, if you specify an infill to use the Standard door/window assembly style, the materials of that infill are those designated in the door/window assembly style. Simple panels need material assigned in the curtain wall style. 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of infills, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall unit style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default infill are applied to all infills unless you create a custom display component for each infill definition. You can then control the display of each infill definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Creating a Panel Infill for a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to create a simple panel infill to represent basic cladding materials in the curtain wall, such as a stone wall panel, concrete panel, metal panel, or glazing infill. 
Because curtain wall units can contain multiple infills, it is helpful to use a naming convention for panel infills that indicates the infill location or purpose within the curtain wall unit. For example, L3-FL1- Stone Panel can identify a stone panel in a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Infill. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the infill. 8 Specify an alignment for the infill. 
For more information, see Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill on page 1581. 
9 Specify an offset for the infill. For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill on page 1582. 
10 Specify a thickness for the panel. Specifying infill panel thickness 

11 Click OK. 
After you create an infill definition, you can assign it to any cell in a curtain wall unit grid. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598. 
Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill 
Use this procedure to align an infill so that it is centered with the baseline of the curtain wall unit, in front of the baseline, or behind the baseline. In Plan view, the front of a curtain wall unit (drawn from left to right) is below the baseline and the back is above the baseline. 
NOTE To move the infill away from the baseline, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill on page 1582. 
Specifying infill alignments 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Select an infill, or create a new one. 7 Select an alignment: front, center, or back. 8 Click OK. 
Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill 
Use this procedure to specify an offset for a curtain wall unit infill. By default, infills are centered on the curtain wall unit baseline. If your design requires that the infill be aligned with frame edges or some other part of the curtain wall unit, you can specify an offset for the infill. 
Specifying panel infill offsets 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 
6 Select an infill, or create a new one. 
7 Enter an offset distance. In Plan view, positive numbers offset the infill above the baseline and negative numbers offset the infill below the baseline. The offset is also affected by the selected alignment for the infill. 
8 Click OK. 
Removing an Infill Definition from a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to delete an infill definition that you no longer need from the Infills definitions list. You cannot remove an infill definition when it is currently assigned to a cell. In addition, you cannot remove the default infill definition, but you can modify it. 
NOTE For information about removing an infill from a cell, see Removing an Infill from a Curtain Wall Unit Cell on page 1604. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Infills under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded infill definition from the list. 7 Click Remove Infill. 8 Click OK. 
Defining Curtain Wall Unit Frames 
All curtain wall unit grids, including the primary grid, can have frame definitions. The frame of the primary grid defines the outer edges of the curtain wall unit. The overall frame size is determined by the length and height of the primary curtain wall unit grid or a nested curtain wall unit grid. You can define a frame by specifying a width and depth or by selecting a profile. 
Specifying default and profile-based frames 

You create frame definitions for a specific curtain wall unit style. Those definitions can be assigned only to frames in curtain wall units of that style. You can create as many frame definitions as you want, and then assign the definitions to the frames. If you have nested grids, each grid has its own frame. There is a default frame definition that you can modify and assign as needed. Unassigned frames are not displayed. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Unit Frames on page 1607. 
TIP You can copy a mullion definition and use it as a frame definition. Select the mullion definition and drag it to Frames in the tree on the left side of the dialog box. 
Materials and Display Properties for Frames 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of frames, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default frame are applied to all frames unless you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each frame definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame by Width and Depth 
You can define a frame by specifying its width and depth. The overall frame size is determined by the length and height of the curtain wall unit grid. 
Specifying frame width and depth 

Because curtain wall units can contain multiple nested grids with different frames, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grid frames that indicates the grid location or purpose within the curtain wall unit. For example, L3-FL1­Metal Frame can identify a metal frame for a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
TIP To remove the frame edge and have the infill adjust to fill the space occupied by the frame, create a frame definition with both width and depth set to zero. Then, assign that definition to the frame edge that you want to remove. This is necessary for the infill to be mitered as it would be for a butt-glazed condition. For more information, see Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1609. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 6 Click the New Frame icon to create a new frame definition. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the frame. 8 Specify a width and depth for the frame. 9 Specify any offsets. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall Unit Frame on page 1589. 
10 Click OK. 
After you create a frame definition, you can assign it to any frame in a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Unit Frames on page 1607. 
Creating a Profile for a Curtain Wall Unit Frame 
Use this procedure to create a profile that you can use to define the shape of a curtain wall unit frame. You can then extrude the profile to create a curtain wall unit frame. 
The height and the width of the polyline you use to create the profile define the default height and width of the curtain wall unit frame. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
1 Draw a closed polyline of the height and the depth needed for the resulting curtain wall unit frame. 
2 Select the polyline, right-click, and click Convert to . Profile Definition. 
3 Enter c (Centroid) for the insertion point of the profile. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
4 Enter a name for the profile, and click OK. You can now use the profile as a curtain wall frame. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame Using a Profile on page 1587. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame Using a Profile 
Use this procedure to create a frame element definition from a profile. If you do not want a straight edge to your frame, you can use a profile to define edges with curves, jags, or any other shape. 
Two profile-based frame examples 

NOTE The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the frame. 
1 Create the profile for the frame. For information on creating profiles for curtain wall unit frames, see Creating a Profile for a Curtain Wall Unit Frame on page 1587. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 4 Select a curtain wall unit style. 5 Click the Design Rules tab. 6 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 7 Click New Frame. 8 Enter a descriptive name for the frame. 9 Specify a width and depth for the frame edge. 
These dimensions are used to calculate the center point of the edge for aligning the profile and also to specify a boundary for the adjacent infill. 
10 Select Use Profile. 
NOTE The Profile options are available only if you have profiles in the current drawing. 
11 Select a profile from the list. By default, the profile is inserted using the same width and depth with which it was created. 
12 To adjust the size of the profile to fit within the width or depth dimension of the frame edge, select Auto-Adjust Profile Width or Depth. 
13 To mirror the profile, select X or Y for Mirror In. 14 To rotate the profile, specify an angle for Rotation. 15 Specify any offsets. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall 
Unit Frame on page 1589. 
16 Click OK. 
After you create a frame definition, you can assign it to any frame in a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Unit Frames on page 1607. 
Specifying Offsets for a Curtain Wall Unit Frame 
Use this procedure to define the distance that a curtain wall unit frame is from the floor line, roof line, or baseline. By default, the outside edges of the frame align with start and end of the floor line and the start and end of the roof line. When you adjust the width of the frame, the frame expands inward. However, you can use offsets to expand or contract the frame away from these default limits or to shift the frame away from the baseline in either the X or Y direction. 
Offset Description 
X Positive X offset moves the frame edge outward beyond the end of the curtain wall unit, while a negative X offset moves the frame edge inward toward the center of the curtain wall unit. 
Y In Plan view, a positive Y offset moves the frame edge above the baseline, while a negative Y offset moves the frame below the baseline. 
Start Negative Start offset lengthens the frame beyond the start point, while a positive Start offset shortens the frame. The start point for vertical edges is the baseline and, 
Offset Description 
for horizontal edges (drawn left to right), it is the left side. 
End Negative End offset lengthens the frame beyond the end point, while a positive End offset shortens the frame. The end point for vertical edges is the base height and, for horizontal edges (drawn left to right), it is the right side. 
Specifying frame offsets 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 6 Select a frame definition from the list. 7 Specify an offset distance for the frame edge X, Y, Start, or End. 8 Click OK. 
Removing a Frame Definition from a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to remove a frame definition from the Frame definitions list. You cannot remove a frame definition if it is currently assigned to a frame edge, but you can remove it if it is assigned as an override to a frame edge. In addition, you cannot remove the default frame definition, but you can modify it. 
NOTE For information about removing a frame edge, see Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1609. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Frames under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded frame definition from the list. 7 Click the Remove Frame icon. 8 Click OK. 
Defining Curtain Wall Unit Mullions 
The mullions of a curtain wall unit are the edges between the grid cells. You can define the mullions by specifying a width and depth or by selecting a profile from which the mullion is extruded. 
Because curtain wall units can contain multiple nested grids with different mullions, it is helpful to use a naming convention for grid mullions that indicates the grid location or purpose within the curtain wall unit. For example, L3-FL1- Panel Decorative Mullion can identify a mullion for a panel in a third-level grid on Floor 1. 
Specifying default and profile-based mullions 

You create mullion definitions for a specific curtain wall unit style and those definitions can be assigned only to mullions in curtain wall units of that style. You can create as many mullion definitions as you want, and then assign the definitions to mullions as needed. If you have nested grids, each grid has its own mullions. There is a default mullion definition that you can modify as needed that is used for any unassigned mullions. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1611. 
TIP You can copy a frame definition and use it as a mullion definition. Select the frame definition and drag it to Mullions in the left pane of the dialog box. 
Materials and Display Properties for Mullions 
If you do not use materials to control the display properties of mullions, you can specify their display properties in the curtain wall unit style. The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default mullion are applied to all mullions unless you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each mullion definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Defining Curtain Wall Unit Mullions by Width and Depth 
You can define mullions by specifying a width and a depth. 
Specifying mullion width and depth 

TIP To remove mullions for butt glazing, create a definition with both width and depth set to zero. Then, assign that definition to the mullions that you want to remove. For more information, see Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1614. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Click New Mullion. 7 Enter a descriptive name for the mullion. 8 Specify a width and depth for the mullion. 9 Specify the offsets you want. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1595. 
10 Click OK. 
After you create a mullion definition, you can assign it to any mullion in a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1611. 
Creating a Profile for Curtain Wall Unit Mullions 
Use this procedure to create a profile that you can use to define the shape of a curtain wall unit mullion definition. You can then extrude the profile to create mullions from it. 
The height and the width of the polyline you use to create the profile define the default height and width of the curtain wall unit mullion. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
1 Draw a closed polyline of the height and the depth needed for the resulting curtain wall unit mullion. 
2 Select the polyline, right-click, and click Convert to . Profile Definition. 
3 Enter c (Centroid) for the insertion point of the profile. The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
4 Enter a name for the profile, and click OK. You can now use the profile as a curtain wall unit mullion. For more information, see Defining the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit Using a Profile on page 1594. 
Defining the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit Using a Profile 
Use this procedure to create a mullion element definition from a profile. If you do not want a straight edge to your mullions, you can use a profile to define mullions with curves, jags, or any other shape. 
NOTE The insertion point of the profile is aligned with the centroid of the mullion. 
Infill alignments with default and profile-based mullions 

1 Create the profile to use for the mullion. For information, see Creating a Profile for Curtain Wall Unit Mullions on page 1593. 
2 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
3 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit Styles. 4 Select a curtain wall unit style. 5 Click the Design Rules tab. 6 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 7 Click the New Mullion icon to create a new mullion definition. 8 Enter a descriptive name for the mullion. 
9 Specify a width and depth for the mullion. These dimensions are used to calculate the center point of the mullion for aligning the profile and also to specify a boundary for the adjacent infill. 
10 Select Use Profile. 
NOTE The Profile options are available only if you have profiles in the current drawing. 
11 Select a profile from the list. By default, the profile is inserted using the same width and depth with which it was created. 
12 To adjust the size of the profile to fit within the width or depth dimension of the mullion, select Auto-Adjust Profile Width or Depth. 
13 To mirror the profile, select X or Y for Mirror In. 14 To rotate the profile, specify a rotation angle for Rotation. 15 Specify any offsets. 
For more information, see Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1595. 
16 Click OK. 
After you create a mullion definition, you can assign it to any mullion in a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Assigning Definitions to the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1611. 
Specifying Offsets for the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to define mullions that are offset from the start or end of the curtain wall unit to lengthen or shorten the edge or offset in the X or Y direction to shift the edge. For example, you might want to represent butt glazing by offsetting the mullions to be behind glass panel infills. 
Offset Description 
X For vertical mullions, a positive X offset moves the mullions toward the end of the curtain wall unit, while a negative X offset moves the mullions toward the start of the curtain wall unit. For horizontal mullions, a positive X offset moves the mullions to­ward the top of the curtain wall unit, while a negative X offset moves the mullions to­ward the bottom of the curtain wall unit. 
Y In Plan view, a positive Y offset moves the mullions above the baseline, while a negat­ive Y offset moves the mullions below the baseline. 
Start Negative Start offset lengthens the mullions beyond the start point, while a positive Start offset shortens the mullions. 
End Negative End offset lengthens the mullions beyond the end point, while a positive End offset shortens the mullions. 
Specifying mullion offsets 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Select a mullion definition from the list. 7 Specify an offset distance for the X, Y, Start, or End. 8 Click OK. 
Removing a Mullion Definition from a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to remove a mullion definition from the Mullions definitions list. You cannot remove a mullion definition if it is assigned to a mullion. In addition, you cannot remove the default mullion definition, but you can modify it as needed. 
NOTE For information about removing mullions from between cells, see Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1614. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select Mullions under Element Definitions. 6 Select the unneeded mullion definition from the list. 7 Click the Remove Mullion icon to remove the mullion definition. 8 Click OK. 
Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to assign a division to a curtain wall unit grid. A division defines the grid orientation (whether the direction of the grid cells and mullions is horizontal or vertical) and the division type (number and size of cells). 
After you define a division, you can assign it to the primary grid or to nested grids. Nested grids are created by selecting Nested Grid as the cell assignment. For more information, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select the grid you want to assign a division to. 
The name of the grid you select is displayed in the table under 
the Division Assignment row. 
TIP To rename a grid, select it, and click Rename, and enter a new 
name. 
6 Click the Element column for that grid and select a division definition from the list. 
7 Click OK. 
Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells 
An infill defines the contents of a curtain wall unit cell. A curtain wall unit cell can have the default simple panel or contain a nested grid, an AEC Polygon, door, window, or door/window assembly style. The object styles you use in infills must exist in the current drawing to be added to an infill definition. Panels typically represent glazing or other plain cladding, such as stone or concrete. For more information, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1579. 
Cell Assignments 
A cell assignment defines the infill definition used for the cells. You can use one cell assignment to assign the same infill to all cells, or you can create multiple cell assignments to assign different infills to different cells. 
Cell assignments 

Do not assign multiple definitions to the same cell because only the last definition assigned to the cell is used. 
Default Cell Assignment 
The default cell assignment is used by all unassigned cells. You can modify the default assignment to be any type of infill, but you cannot delete the default cell assignment. 
You may want to modify the default cell assignment to use the infill definition that occurs most frequently in your design. Any cells not assigned to other infills then use this infill definition. 
Materials and Display Properties of Infills 
The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default infill are applied to all infills unless you assign materials to the infills you created or you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each infill definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Creating a Nested Grid in a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to create a nested grid in a curtain wall unit. A nested grid is a grid within a grid. Each nested grid has its own division, cell assignments, frame, and mullions. By default, the frame is turned off for nested grids. 
For more information, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 
2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a 
nested grid. 6 Click the New Cell Assignment icon. A new cell assignment is displayed in the list of cell assignments. 
7 Click New Cell Assignment, and enter a descriptive name for the assignment. 
8 Select Nested Grid in the Element column. A new grid is added to the list of grids in the tree view to the left of the dialog box. If you are editing the primary grid, the new grid is added at the secondary level. If you are editing a grid at the secondary level, the additional grid is placed at the tertiary level, and so on. 
Creating a nested grid 

New nested grid in tree 

NOTE To rename a grid, select it in the right pane, right-click and click Rename, and enter a new name. 
9 Specify the cells to contain this nested grid. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1605. 10 Click OK. 
Inserting a Door, Window or Door/Window Assembly into a Curtain Wall Unit Cell 
Use this procedure to add doors, windows and door/window assemblies to a curtain wall unit. For more information, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1579 
1 Open the tool palette that you want to use, and select a door, window or door/window assembly. 2 Select the curtain wall unit in which to insert the door, window 
or door/window assembly. You can move or hide the Properties palette to expose more of the drawing area. 
3 Select the curtain wall unit cell marker for the cell in which to insert the door, window or door/window assembly. The Add Infill worksheet displays. 

4 Select the insertion method for the door, window or door/window assembly: 
If you want to… Then… 
add the door, window or select Add as Cell Assignment. door/window assembly as a cell assignment and have all curtain wall units using the same style dis­play the same object ad­ded in a corresponding cell 
If you want to… Then… 
add the door, window or select Add as Cell Override. door/window assembly exclusively to the selected curtain wall unit 
If a door, window or door/window assembly of the style you selected already exists in your drawing, Existing Infill is selected by default. 
5 Select the type of infill for the door, window or door/window assembly: 
If you selected… Then… 
Add as Cell Assignment Click OK. and you want to insert a door, window or door/window assembly of the existing style, Exist­ing Infill is selected by default. 
Add as Cell Assignment  select New Infill, enter a name for the object  
and you want to insert a  and click OK.  
door, window or  
door/window assembly  
of a different style than  
exists in your drawing  

Add as Cell Override and Click OK. you want to insert a door, window or door/window assembly of the existing style and not modify the edge of the frame surrounding the object 
Add as Cell Override and  select New Infill, enter a name for the object  
you want to insert a  and click OK.  
door, window or  
door/window assembly  

If you selected… Then… 
of a different style than exists in your drawing and not remove an edge of the frame surrounding the object 
Add as Cell Override and  select Top, Bottom, Left, or Right for Override  
you want to insert a  Frame Removal and click OK.  
door, window or  
door/window assembly  
of the existing style and  
remove an edge of the  
frame surrounding the  
object  

Add as Cell Override and  select New Infill and enter a name for the  
you want to insert a  object. Then select Top, Bottom, Left, or Right  
door, window or  for Override Frame Removal and click OK.  
door/window assembly  
of a different style than  
exists in your drawing  
and remove an edge of  
the frame surrounding  
the object  

6 Press ENTER. 
Filling a Curtain Wall Unit Cell with a Simple Panel 
Use this procedure to fill a curtain wall unit cell with a simple panel. Simple panels are generally used to represent basic cladding materials in the curtain wall, such as a stone wall panel or a concrete panel. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to put a simple panel infill. 6 Click the New Cell Assignment icon. A new cell assignment is displayed in the list of cell assignments. 
7 Click New Cell Assignment, and enter a descriptive name for the assignment. 
8 Under Element, select an infill that defines a simple panel. If you do not have a simple panel infill defined, select New Infill and define one. For more information, see Creating a Panel Infill for a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1580. 
9 Specify the cells to contain this simple panel. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1605. 
10 Click OK. 
Removing an Infill from a Curtain Wall Unit Cell 
Use this procedure to remove the infill of a cell and leave the cell empty. To do this, use None as the element definition. Using None also removes any frame edges that border the cell, but it does not affect the mullions. 
Removing an infill assignment from a cell 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select the grid that contains the cells you want 
to assign to None. 
6 Create a new cell assignment or select an existing cell assignment. 7 Select None under the Element column. 8 Specify the cells to contain the None infill. 
For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit 
Cells Use a Cell Assignment on page 1605. 
9 Click OK. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Cells Use a Cell Assignment 
When you create a cell assignment you need to specify the cells in the grid to use that assignment. There are two options for selecting cells: 
¦ Use Location to insert the infill into the start, middle, or end cells of a vertical grid or into the bottom, middle, or top cells of a horizontal grid. If there is an even number of cells (four or more), Middle refers to the two cells in the middle of the grid. If there is an odd number of cells (three or more), Middle refers to one cell in the middle of the grid. 
Specifying cell assignments by location 

¦ Use Index to insert the infill into specific cells based on cell numbers. Cells are numbered from start to end or bottom to top. For example, typing 1, 3, 5 would place the infill in the first, third, and fifth cells. 
Specifying cell assignment by index 

Any cells that are not assigned a specific cell assignment use the default infill. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select a grid. 6 Under the Type column, select Location or Index. 7 Select a cell assignment: 
If you selected … Then … 
Location click the Used In column, and click the button at the far right of the row. Select the cells you want to use this assignment, and click OK. 
Index enter the cell numbers separated by commas in the Used In column. For vertical grids, cells are numbered from start to end and for horizontal grids, cells are numbered from bottom to top. 
NOTE Do not assign multiple definitions to a cell because the last definition assigned to the cell is used. 
8 Click OK 
Removing an Assignment from a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to remove cell assignments, frame assignments, and mullion assignments from a curtain wall unit style. You cannot remove default assignments, but you can modify them to suit your needs. 
NOTE Each grid requires one division assignment. Therefore, you cannot remove the division assignment, although you can change the division element used for the division assignment. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid from which you want to remove 
an assignment. 6 Select a cell assignment, frame assignment, or a mullion 
assignment. 7 Click the Remove Assignment icon. 8 Click OK twice. 
Assigning Definitions to Curtain Wall Unit Frames 
The curtain wall unit frame is represented by the outer edges of the primary grid. Each nested grid has its own frame that is defined separately from the primary grid frame. By default, the frames of nested grids are turned off. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
Frame Assignments 
A frame assignment defines the frame definition that is used by each frame edge. You can use one frame assignment to assign the same definition to all four edges of the frame, or you can create multiple frame assignments to assign different definitions to different edges of the frame. Unassigned edges are not displayed. 
Do not assign multiple definitions to the frame edge because the last definition assigned to the edge is used. 
Default Frame Assignment 
There is a default frame assignment, and you can select the frame edges it applies to. You can modify the default assignment to use any frame definition, but you cannot delete the default frame assignment. 
Materials and Display Properties of Frames 
The layer, color, linetype, and other display properties of the default frame are applied to all frame edges unless you assign materials to the frame definition or you create a custom display component for each definition. You can then control the display of each frame definition independently. For more information, see Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
Adding a New Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to add a frame assignment to a curtain wall unit. To assign different definitions to different frame edges, you need multiple frame assignments. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a new 
frame assignment. 
6 Click the New Frame Assignment icon. A new frame assignment is displayed in the list of frame assignments. 
New frame definition 

7 Click New Frame Assignment and enter a descriptive name for the assignment. 
8 Select a frame definition from the Element column. 
9 Specify the sides of the frame to use this frame assignment. 
For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Edges Use a Frame Assignment on page 1610. 
10 Click OK. 
Removing a Frame Edge from a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to remove a frame edge from a curtain wall unit. There are three ways to remove a frame edge: 
¦ 
Set the width and depth of the edge to zero 

¦ 
Leave the edge unassigned 

¦ 
Specify None as an override to the edge assignment 


The first two methods remove the frame edge and expand the adjacent infills into the space occupied by the edge. 
Specifying a frame width and depth of zero 

By specifying None as an override, the frame edge is not displayed, but the adjacent infill is not expanded into the space the edge occupied. 
Overriding a frame edge definition 

For information about setting the width and depth to zero, see Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame by Width and Depth on page 1586. 
For information about leaving the edge unassigned, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Edges Use a Frame Assignment on page 1610. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Edges Use a Frame Assignment 
Use this procedure to specify edges that use a frame assignment. When you create a frame assignment, you need to specify the edges of the frame to use that assignment. 
Frame edges that are not assigned a frame definition are not displayed. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select a grid. 
6 Select a frame assignment. 
Location is the only way to specify the frame edges. 
7 Click the Used In column, and then click the [...] button at the far right of the row. 
Specifying frame location 

8 Select the edges that you want to use this assignment - Left, Right, Top, or -Bottom - and click OK. 
Assigning frames to nested grids 

Do not assign multiple definitions to the same frame edge because only the last definition assigned to the edge is used. 
9 Click OK. 
Assigning Definitions to the Mullions of a Curtain Wall Unit 
The mullions of a curtain wall unit are the edges between the grid cells. The primary grid and each nested grid have mullions that are defined separately from the other grids. For more information about nested grids, see Working with Nested Grids in Curtain Walls on page 1464. 
Assign mullions to a nested grid 

Mullion Assignments 
A mullion assignment defines the definition used by each mullion. You can use one assignment to define all mullions, or you can create multiple assignments and assign different definitions to different mullions in any grid. 
Do not assign multiple definitions to the same mullion because only the last definition assigned to the mullion is used. 
Default Mullion Assignment 
There is a default mullion assignment used by all unassigned mullions. You can modify the default assignment to be any mullion definition, but you cannot delete the default mullion assignment. 
Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to add a new mullion assignment to a curtain wall unit style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to create a new 
mullion assignment. 6 Click New Mullion Assignment. A new mullion assignment is displayed in the list of mullion assignments. 
New mullion assignment 

7 Select the mullion assignment, right-click and click Rename, and then enter a descriptive name. 8 Select a mullion definition from the Element column. 
9 Specify the mullions to use this assignment. For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Mullions Use an Assignment on page 1613. 
10 Click OK. 
Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Mullions Use an Assignment 
When you create a mullion assignment you need to specify the mullions in the grid to use that assignment. There are two options for selecting mullions: 
¦ 
Use Location to assign a definition to the start, middle, or end mullions of a vertical grid or the bottom, middle, or top mullions of a horizontal grid. If there is an even number of mullions (four or more), Middle refers to the two mullions in the middle of the grid. If there is an odd number of mullions (three or more), Middle refers to the one mullion in the middle of the grid. 

¦ 
Use Index to assign a definition to specific mullions based on mullion numbers. Mullions are numbered from start to end or bottom to top. For example, entering 1, 2, 3 would assign the definition to the first, second, and third mullions. 


1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the Design Rules tab. 5 In the left pane, select a grid. 6 Create a new mullion assignment or select an existing assignment. 7 Select Location or Index for Type. 8 Select a cell assignment. 
If you selected … Then … 
Location click the Used In column, and click the button at the far right of the row. Select the cells you want to use this assignment, and click OK. 
Index enter the mullion numbers separ­ated by commas in the Used In column. For vertical grids, mullions are numbered start to end and for horizontal grids, mullions are numbered from bottom to top. 
NOTE Do not assign multiple definitions to the same mullion because only the last definition assigned to the mullion is used. 
9 Click OK. Any mullions that are not assigned a specific mullion assignment use the default mullion definition. 
Removing Mullions from a Curtain Wall Unit Grid 
Use this procedure to remove a mullion from the curtain wall unit. You can create a mullion definition whose edge width and depth are zero. Adjacent infills expand to fill in the space that was occupied by the mullion. This is an effective way to represent butt glazing. 
Removing mullions from a curtain wall unit grid 

1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 
4 Click the Design Rules tab. 
5 In the left pane, select the grid in which you want to remove a 
mullion. 
6 Create a new mullion assignment and enter 0 (zero) for the width and depth. For more information, see Defining Curtain Wall Unit Mullions 
by Width and Depth on page 1592. 
7 Under Mullion Assignments, select the mullion definition you created for any cell edges of any mullion assignment where you want to remove the mullions. 
For more information, see Specifying Which Curtain Wall Unit Mullions Use an Assignment on page 1613. 
8 Click OK. 
Specifying the Materials of a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
A curtain wall unit consists of a number of components whose display properties can be determined by the materials assigned to each component. 
When you assign materials to a curtain wall unit style, you assign one material to each display component of the curtain wall unit. For example, you assign a wood material to the frame and a glass material to the glass inset. You assign materials to components in each display representation where you want the materials to be used. 
If you want to use the display properties of the curtain wall unit style, instead of using material display properties, you can turn off the material assignments in the display properties of the curtain wall unit style. 
Material definitions consist of display components that correspond to component types of objects. For example, the Linework component of a material is used for all linework in plan view. The Surface Hatch component of a material is used to hatch all object surfaces in three dimensional (3D) model views and in elevations. 
Curtain Wall Unit Materials and Display Components 
The following table identifies the material component that corresponds to each curtain wall unit component in the specified views. 
Curtain Wall Unit Component Material Component 
Plan, Plan High Detail, Plan Low Detail, Screened, Reflected Plan 
Frame Definitions Linework 
Mullion Definitions Linework 
Infill Definitions Linework 
Frame Definitions Hatch Linework 
Curtain Wall Unit Component Material Component 
Mullion Definitions Hatch Linework 
Infill Definitions Hatch Linework 
Model 
Frame 3D Body 
Mullion 3D Body 
Infill 3D Body 
Assigning Materials to a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to assign materials to the individual components of a curtain wall unit style. When you assign a material to a curtain wall unit component, the component uses the display properties of the material instead of the style display properties. 
You can assign a material to any physical component of the curtain wall unit. Custom components and components that are only symbolic graphics do not use materials for their display properties. For example, the frame, mullion, and infill are physical components of a curtain wall unit. The cell marker is a symbolic component. 
NOTE If a material assignment does not determine the display properties of a curtain wall unit component, you can change the display properties of the curtain wall unit style as described in Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units on page 1617. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select the style you want to edit. 
4 Click the Display Properties tab. 
5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear, and select Style Override. 
6 If necessary, click 
. 
7 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 
8 Select By Material for any component to which you want to assign a material, and click OK. If the setting for By Material is not available, the display of this 
component cannot be determined by a material. 
9 Click the Materials tab. 
10 Select the component you want to change, select the value for Material Definition, and select a different material definition. You can select any material definition in the current drawing, or 
click 
to create a new material definition and assign it to a 
component. 
WARNING Although you can edit a material definition from this dialog box, any changes you make to the material definition apply to all objects that are assigned the material. 
11 Click OK. 
Specifying the Display of Curtain Wall Units 
The display of a curtain wall unit depends on the direction from which you view the curtain wall unit. In Plan view, the curtain wall unit is displayed as parallel lines with vertices marking the grid lines, as an architect would typically draw a curtain wall unit. In 3D isometric views, the curtain wall unit is displayed as it would appear in the real world, with surfaces showing length, thickness, and height. You control what you want to display in each particular view. 
Element Definitions and Custom Display Components 
By default, the display of all infills, frames, and mullions are controlled by the display properties of the default infill, default frame, and default mullions. However, you can add individual element definitions as components with separate display properties. For example, if you define two infills called stone panel and acetylene panel, by default they are both controlled by the same default infill display properties. However, you can add each definition as a new display component and control the display properties separately. 
NOTE The component name in the Custom Display Component dialog box must match the name of element definition in the Design Rules tab. Otherwise the element definition does not display properly. 
For more information about the display system, see Display System on page 777. 
Materials and Display Properties 
You can use materials to control the display of both default and custom infills, frames, and mullions. When you assign materials to the element definitions you create, you do not need to define these definitions as custom display components. For more information, see Specifying the Materials of a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1615. 
Adding Curtain Wall Unit Element Definitions as Display Components 
Use this procedure to add curtain wall unit element definitions. Before you can control the display properties of curtain wall unit elements according to the definition assigned to the element, you must create display components for each element definition. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select the curtain wall unit style that you want to change. 
4 Click the Display Properties tab. 
5 Select Model as the display representation. 
6 Click 
. The default list of components includes only the three basic elements and cell markers. 
Default Model display components for curtain wall units 

7 Click the Other tab, and then click Add. 8 Select Infill, Frame, or Mullion for Component Type. 9 Enter a name for Component Name, or click Select Element and 
select an element from the list. 10 Click OK. 11 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 
The element definition that you added is displayed in the list of components. 
12 Click the Other tab to continue adding element definitions, or click OK twice. 
Specifying the Layer, Color, and Linetype of a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to change the following display properties of the components of a curtain wall unit style: 
¦ 
Visibility (component is on or off) 

¦ 
By Material 

¦ 
Layer 

¦ 
Color 

¦ 
Linetype 

¦ 
Lineweight 

¦ 
Linetype scale 


1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall unit style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear. 6 Click Style Override. 7 Click the Layer/Color/Linetype tab. 
8 Select the component to change, and select a different setting for the property. 9 Click OK twice. 
Specifying the Hatching for Components of a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to specify the hatching of the components of a curtain wall unit style. Curtain wall hatching is displayed only in display representations, such as Plan, that are used in Top view (Plan view) of a drawing. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select the curtain wall unit style that you want to change. 4 Click the Display Properties tab. 5 Select the display representation where you want the changes to 
appear, and click Style Override. 6 Click the Hatching tab. 7 Select a component, and click the setting for Pattern. 8 Specify the hatching for the component: 
If you want to select … Then … 
a hatching pattern that is available select Predefined for Type, and then in the software select a pattern. 
a custom pattern select Custom for Type, and then enter the name of the custom pat­tern. If necessary, click Browse, and navigate to the folder where the custom pattern file is located. 
single hatching select User-defined for Type, and clear Double Hatch. 
double hatching select User-defined for Type, and select Double Hatch. 
If you want to select … Then … 
solid fill select Solid Fill for Type. 
9 Click OK. 10 Click the setting for Scale/Spacing, and enter a value that determines how the selected pattern is repeated. 11 Click the setting for Angle, and enter the angle for the selected pattern. 12 Click the setting for Orientation, and specify how the hatching is oriented: 
If you want to orient the Then … hatching … 
to the object, regardless of the ob-select Object. ject rotation 
to the World Coordinate System select Global. 
13 Click OK twice. 
Adding Custom Graphics as a Display Component of a Curtain Wall Unit 
There may be instances where an infill, frame, or mullion requires a custom two-dimensional (2D) or three-dimensional (3D) graphic. For example, you might need a highly detailed three-dimensional truss as the mullions or a decorative light fixture applied to an infill. In cases like these, you can create a custom block, add a display component with the block attached, and associate that component with an element definition. When you assign that definition to an element, the block is also displayed. 
1 Draw your custom component and save it as a block. 2 Select a curtain wall unit, right-click, and click Edit Curtain Wall Unit Style. 3 Click the Display Properties tab. 
4 Click 
. 5 Click the Custom Plan Components tab. 
If Model is the current display representation, the tab is called Other. 
6 Click Add. 7 Select Infill, Frame, or Mullion for Component Type. 8 Select the specific element from the list. 9 Select Draw Custom Graphics. 
10 Specify the display of the component: 
If you want to … Then … 
display the block instead of the as-select Replace Graphics. sociated curtain wall unit element 
superimpose the block over the clear Replace Graphics. curtain wall unit element so that both are displayed 
11 Click Select Block, and select the custom block that you created. 12 Click OK. 13 Specify further settings for the custom display block: 
If you want to … Then … 
scale the block to fit a particular di-select Width, Height, or Depth. To mension prevent the block from losing its proportions, select Lock XY Ratio. 
specify how the block is inserted specify an insertion point on the X, into the grid in the X, Y, and Z dir-Y, and Z planes. ections 
mirror the block determine if it should mirror in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
offset the block from the grid specify the offset in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
14 Click OK three times. 
Creating Cut Planes for a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to specify the properties of one or more cut planes for a curtain wall unit style. Cut plane display properties apply only to display representations, such as Plan, that are used in Top view (Plan view) of a drawing. 
To better visualize the elements of a curtain wall unit in Plan view, you can create cut planes. The main cut plane is where the shrinkwrap and hatching are applied. The plan display shows the components and objects in the wall as they are displayed at the height of each cut plane. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit. 2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . General panel . Edit Style 
drop-down . Edit Style
 . 3 Click the Display Properties tab. 
4 Select Plan, and click 
. 
NOTE The Cut Plane tab is displayed only in some display representations, such as Plan. 
5 Click the Cut Plane tab to set the cut plane to be displayed in each display representation for the curtain wall unit style. 
6 Enter a value for Cut Plane Height to specify the cut plane at which hatching takes effect. 
7 To specifically define a cut plane, click Add, and enter the height of the new cut plane: 
If you add a cut plane … Then … 
at a height that is lower than the objects are displayed using the 
value for Cut Plane Height properties specified for the Below Cut Plane component on the Lay­er/Color/Linetype tab. 
at a height that is higher than the objects are displayed using the 
value for Cut Plane Height properties specified for the Above Cut Plane component on the Lay­er/Color/Linetype tab. 
Below and Above components 

You can click Remove to delete a cut plane that you added. 
8 Click OK to exit all dialog boxes. 
Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Style as Bounding for Associative Spaces 
Use this procedure to define a curtain wall unit style that can bound associative spaces. 
When a curtain wall unit style is set as bounding, by default all curtain wall units that have the style assigned will be used in the selection set for an associative space. For more information about associative spaces see Generating Associative Spaces on page 2904. 
You can override the bounding settings from the curtain wall unit style in an individual curtain wall unit, if necessary. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager
 . 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 3 Select a curtain wall unit style. 4 Click the General tab. 5 Select the checkbox for Objects of this style may act as a boundary 
for associative spaces. 6 Click OK. 
Attaching Notes and Files to a Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to enter notes and attach reference files to a curtain wall unit style. You can also edit notes and edit or detach reference files from a curtain wall unit style. 
1 Click Manage tab . Style & Display panel . Style Manager 2 Expand Architectural Objects, and expand Curtain Wall Unit 
Styles. 
3 Select the curtain wall unit style you want to change. 
4 Click the General tab. 
5 To add a description to the curtain wall unit style, enter the 
description for Description. 
6 Click Notes. 
7 To add a note, click the Notes tab, and enter the note. 
8 Click the Reference Docs tab, and attach, edit, or detach a 
reference file: 

If you want to … Then … 
attach a reference file click Add, select a file, and click OK. 
edit the description of a reference select the file, and click Edit. Enter file the description, and click OK. 
edit a reference file double-click the reference file name to start its application. 
detach a reference file select the file name, and click De­lete. 
9 Click OK twice. 
Using Overrides in Curtain Wall Units 
Curtain wall units are subunits of geometrically complex curtain walls, which often have a large number of different elements, like frames, panels, and infills. Most of these settings are defined in the style. However, there are cases when modifying a curtain wall unit directly on screen is more suitable: 
¦ 
You want to add custom frame or mullion edges to a curtain wall unit and need direct visual feedback. 

¦ 
You want to create an override, like a merged infill or nested grid, in only one specific place in the curtain wall unit. 

¦ 
You want to experiment with different visuals without having to change the curtain wall unit style for each idea immediately. 


When you have finished your onscreen edits, you can decide if you want to 
¦ 
Apply the overrides to the curtain wall unit you have edited. 

¦ 
Save the overrides to the current curtain wall unit style. 

¦ 
Create a new style for the overrides. 


Overrides you can set include assigning a different definition to a selected cell, frame, or mullion, and assigning a profile to a frame or mullion edge. Note that the definition or profile must already exist in the current drawing before you can use it as an override. 
Overrides do not affect the Design Rules for the curtain wall unit style. However, you can transfer overrides to a curtain wall unit style if you want all curtain wall units of that style to have the same overrides. 
You can view a list of overrides that are currently assigned to a curtain wall unit from the Overrides tab of the Curtain Wall Unit Properties dialog box. For more information, see Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654. 
NOTE Overrides are also listed on the Overrides tab in the Curtain Wall Unit Style Properties dialog box. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Unit Infills 
The cell infills of a curtain wall unit are set in the curtain wall unit style. You can however, create overrides for these infill overrides in cells. For example, you might want a row of normal rectangular panel infills for a first floor facade. In one specific position, however, you want a decorative nested grid. In this case, you would set the row of concrete panels in the curtain wall unit style, and then override the panel at one specific place with the nested grid. 
Curtain wall unit infills can consist of simple panels or nested grids. You can change one infill for another, merge cells, or remove frames from an infill altogether. 
Turning on Cell Markers for Curtain Wall Units 
Use this procedure to turn on the cell markers for each grid cell in a curtain wall unit. The cell markers must be on in order to select individual cells and make changes to them. 
Viewing Cell Markers 

1 Select the curtain wall unit for which you want to create an infill override. 2 Click Curtain Unit Wall tab . Modify panel . Show Infill Markers . 

Merging Curtain Wall Unit Cells 
Use this procedure to merge two curtain wall unit cells. 
NOTE To merge curtain wall unit cells, the cell markers need to be visible. For information on turning on cell markers, see Turning on Cell Markers for Curtain Wall Units on page 1626. 
You can only merge cells that are adjacent to each other. 
In most cases, you merge cells with the same infill type. The merged cell is then of the same type as the original cells. For example, if you merge two solid panel infills, the resulting merged cell also has a solid panel infill. In some cases, however, you might want to merge two cells that have different infill types. In that case, the infill type of the first selected cell is used for the merged cell. For example, if you want to merge a cell with a simple panel infill and a cell with a nested grid, and you select the cell with the simple panel first during the merge command, the merged cell contains a simple panel infill, and not a nested grid. If you select the two cells in the opposite order, the merged cell contains a nested grid and no simple panel infill. 
Merging two cells 

1 Select the curtain wall unit on which you want to merge two cells. 2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Infill 
drop-down . Merge. 3 Select the first cell to be merged. 4 Select the second cell to be merged. 
The cells are merged into one. 
5 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall unit override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall  no further steps are necessary. The  
unit  override is saved to the curtain wall  
unit. For information about how to  
remove an override from a curtain  
wall unit, see Removing Curtain  
Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654.  

to a curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
6 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall unit style, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style, and decide to which curtain wall unit style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Merge Operations to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a cell merge, only the Transfer Merge Operations to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a new cell assignment or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their check-boxes too. 
to a new curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Merge Operations to Style, and click New. Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a cell merge, only the Transfer Merge Operations to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a new cell assignment or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their check-boxes too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides still remain on the curtain wall unit, where they can be removed as described in Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Infill Override on page 1630, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall unit style. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Infill Override 
Use this procedure to override the infill of a curtain wall unit cell. 
For example, you might have a row of simple concrete panels in your curtain wall unit, but want in one location a nested grid instead of the concrete panel. In that case, it might be simpler to use an infill override, instead of creating a complex curtain wall unit style setting. 
NOTE To override an infill assignment, the cell markers need to be visible. For information on turning on cell markers, see Turning on Cell Markers for Curtain Wall Units on page 1626. 
To exchange an infill definition, the new infill definition must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style. For information on creating infill definitions, see Defining Infills for Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1579. 
Overriding a curtain wall unit cell definition 

1 Select the curtain wall unit on which you want to override an infill. 
2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Infill drop-down . Override Assignment. 
3 Select the marker of the cell where you want to create an override. 

4 Create the override: 
If you want to … Then … 
exchange the existing infill for an­other  select a new infill definition from the list.  
NOTE To exchange an infill definition, the new infill defini­tion must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style.  

remove one or more of the frames select the frame component to be around the infill removed. 
remove the complete infill and its select Remove Infill and Frames. 
frame NOTE This works only for infills that are bordering the exterior of the curtain wall unit. 
5 Click OK. 6 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall unit override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall no further steps are necessary. The 
unit override is saved to the curtain wall unit. For information about how to remove an override from a curtain 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
wall unit, see Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654. 
to a curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
7 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall unit style, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Save To Style, and decide to which curtain wall unit style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Cell Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only an infill override, only the Transfer Cell Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
to a new curtain wall unit style select Transfer Cell Overrides to Style, and click New. Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and click OK. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
NOTE If you have created only an infill override, only the Transfer Cell Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a frame or mullion edge override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules.The overrides still remain on the curtain wall unit, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall unit style. 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Unit Cells 
Use this procedure to edit curtain wall unit cells using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit individual cells, bays, columns, or nested grids of the curtain wall unit directly and interactively in the drawing area, and later save the changes to the curtain wall unit or curtain wall unit style. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit on which you want to edit cells with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall unit: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall unit click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
If you want to edit … Then … 
the curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. If this option is not available, the design rules are already style-based for the curtain wall unit. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter c (Cell) and press ENTER. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
5 Select the individual cells, bay, column, or nested grid to modify the cell assignment by hovering over a cell or pressing TAB, and press ENTER. 
Press CTRL to select multiple cells, bays, columns or nested grids. 
The Edit Cells worksheet displays. 

6 Edit the cell for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
assign an infill to selected select Assign Infill and select an infill defini­cells tion. Clear Replace Cell and click OK. 
replace the selected cells select Assign Infill and select an infill defini­with a new infill tion. Select Replace Cell and click OK. 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designinfill to the selected cells 
Rules worksheet. For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598. 
divide the selected cells select Subdivision. with divisions, infills or frames 
select a division for the select a division definition. subdivided cells 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designdivision to the selected 
Rules worksheet.
cells For more information, see Assigning a Division to a Curtain Wall Unit Grid on page 1597. 
select an infill for the select an infill definition. subdivided cells 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designinfill to the subdivided 
Rules worksheet.
cells For more information, see Assigning Infills to Curtain Wall Unit Cells on page 1598. 
select a frame definition select the frame definition and click OK. for the grid created after the cell is subdivided 
specify the location of select Top, Bottom, Left, Right for Frame frames on the grid cre-Location and click OK. 
If you want to… Then… 
ated after the cell is sub­divided 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designframe definition for the 
Rules worksheet.
new grid created after For more information, see Adding a Newthe cell is subdivided 
Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1608. 
select a mullion definition select the mullion definition. for the grid created after the cell is subdivided 
create and assign a new click 
and specify values on the Designmullion definition to the 
Rules worksheet.
selected grid For more information, see Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Unit Style on page 1612. 
replace the existing cell select Replace Cell. infill with the options se­lected on this worksheet 
continue in-place editing select Continue Grid Editing. the grid after the cell is subdivided 
7 Click OK. 8 Press ENTER. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Unit Frames and Mullions 
You can change a selected frame edge or mullion edge by using an edge assignment override. 
NOTE To exchange a frame edge or mullion edge, the new edge definition must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style. 
Removing the edge does not affect the width of the cell. To remove the edge and have the adjacent cell resize, create an edge definition with a width and depth of zero. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame by Width and Depth on page 1586or Defining Curtain Wall Unit Mullions by Width and Depth on page 1592. 
You can also create a new edge profile by drawing a polyline or using an existing profile in the drawing. This edge profile can be interactively edited onscreen using in-place editing. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Frame or Mullion Override 
Use this procedure to override an individual frame or mullion in a curtain wall unit. 
To exchange a frame or mullion, the new definition must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style. For information on creating frames and mullions, see Defining Curtain Wall Unit Frames on page 1584 and Defining Curtain Wall Unit Mullions on page 1591. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit on which you want to override an edge. 
2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion drop-down . Override Assignment. 
3 Select the frame or mullion edge you want to override. 

4 Create the override: 
If you want to … Then … 
exchange the existing edge for an­other  select a new edge definition from the list.  
NOTE To exchange an edge definition, the new edge defini­tion must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style.  

remove the frame or mullion edge select Remove Edge. 
5 Click OK. 6 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall unit override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall  no further steps are necessary. The  
unit  override is saved to the curtain wall  
unit. For information about how to  
remove an override from a curtain  
wall unit, see Removing Curtain  
Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654.  

to a curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
7 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall unit style, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules 
drop-down . Save To Style, and decide to which curtain wall unit style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Edge Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a frame or mullion edge over­ride, only the Transfer Edge Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
to a new curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Edge Overrides to Style, and click New. Then, enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a frame or mullion edge over­ride, only the Transfer Edge Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides still remain on the curtain wall unit, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall unit style. 
Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Frame or Mullion Edge from a Polyline or Profile 
You can assign a profile to any vertical edge of a frame or mullion. The profile can be any profile or any closed polyline that you specify. You can use a profile edge to create a unique corner in situations where a simple miter is not sufficient. 
NOTE Adjacent infills are not trimmed or expanded to accommodate the new edge. To adjust the infill, change the width of the frame edge. For more information, see Defining a Curtain Wall Unit Frame by Width and Depth on page 1586. 
Overriding edge profile 

1 Draw a closed polyline in the location where you want it to display in the curtain wall unit. 
NOTE For best results, it is recommended that you draw the polyline in Plan view. 
2 Select the curtain wall unit for which you want to create a frame or mullion edge profile override. 
3 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion drop-down . Add Profile. 
4 Select a vertical frame or mullion edge. 5 Select a profile for the override: 
If you want to create the edge Then … profile … 
from the polyline drawn in step 1 select it in the drawing, and enter a name for it. Click OK. 
from an existing profile in the press Enter, select the profile, and drawing click OK. 
6 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall unit override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall  no further steps are necessary. The  
unit  override is saved to the curtain wall  
unit. For information about how to  
remove an override from a curtain  
wall unit, see Removing Curtain  
Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654.  

to a curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
7 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall unit style, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules 
drop-down . Save To Style, and decide to which curtain wall unit style you want to save the override. 
If you want to … Then … 
to the current curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Edge Profile Over­rides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Edge Profile Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
to a new curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Edge Overrides to Style, and click New. Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Edge Profile Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other overrides, such as a cell merge or a division override, these checkboxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, se­lect their checkboxes too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules.The overrides still remain on the curtain wall unit, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall unit style. 
In-Place Editing of Edge Profiles for Curtain Wall Units 
Use this procedure to edit profile edges with in-place editing. With in-place editing, you can use edge grips to edit the profile directly and interactively on screen, and later save the changes to the profile definition. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit that has the edge profile you want to edit onscreen with in-place editing. 
2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Frame/Mullion 
drop-down . Edit Profile. This command is only available if you have profile-based edges in the curtain wall unit. 
NOTE If the profile is not drawn to size, it must be converted in order for you to begin the in-place editing session. Click Yes if prompted to convert the profile to its actual size. 
3 Select the edge you want to edit. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the magenta colored grips and light blue hatch of the temporary in-place editing profile, as well as the faded color of all other objects in the drawing. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
4 Edit the profile: 
If you want to … Then … 
use grips to edit the profile move the grips as needed. The Edge grip has three edit modes: Offset, Add Vertex, and Convert to Arc. The default mode is Offset, 
If you want to … Then … 
add a vertex to the profile 
which offsets the selected edge in a direction that is perpendicular to the midpoint of the edge. Depend­ing on the shape of the profile and the edge you choose to modify, neighboring lines are extended or trimmed, and new lines are added, as necessary. Use the Add Vertex edit mode to add a vertex to the selected edge, and create a new edge. If the selec­ted edge is an arc, the new edge is an arc, as well. Convert to Arc changes the selected edge to an arc and stretches the midpoint of the edge. The edge grip for an arc also has a Stretch mode, so that you can stretch the midpoint of the edge after it has been converted to an arc. 
select an Edge grip, and press CTRL to switch to the Add Vertex edit mode. Move the edge to the de­sired location and click, or enter a value and press ENTER. Alternatively, you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Add 
Vertex
 . 
remove a vertex from the profile 
select the Vertex grip for the vertex you want to remove, and press CTRL to switch to the Remove edit mode. Move the cursor off the se­lected vertex, and click. Alternatively you can click Edit In Place tab . Profile panel . Re­
move Vertex
 . 
If you want to … Then … 
add a ring to the profile click Edit In Place tab . Profile 
panel . Add Ring
 . Select a closed polyline, spline, ellipse, or circle for an additional ring. Specify if you want to erase the source linework, and press Enter. 
remove a ring from a profile click Edit In Place tab . Profile 
panel . Remove Ring
 . Select the ring you want to remove. 
NOTE You cannot remove the last ring from a profile. 
replace a ring on a profile click Edit In Place tab . Profile 
panel . Replace Ring
 . Select a closed polyline, spline, ellipse, or circle for the replaced ring. Specify if you want to erase the source linework, and press Enter. 
5 Save the changes to the profile. 
If you want to … Then … 
change the existing profile defini-click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­tion to reflect the new shape 
el . Finish
 . 
create a new profile definition with  click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan- 
the shape you have created  el . Save As  . Enter a name for  
the new profile and click OK. The  
in-place edit session is exited and  
the new profile definition is avail­ 
able in the Style Manager.  

discard all changes on the profile click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan-and revert back to the previous 
el . Cancel
 .
shape 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Unit Frames and Mullions 
Use this procedure to edit frames and mullions using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit bays, columns or nested grids of the curtain wall unit directly and interactively in the drawing area, and later save the changes to the curtain wall unit or curtain wall unit style. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit on which you want to edit frames or mullions with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall unit: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall unit click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
the curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. If this option is not available, the design rules are already style-based for the curtain wall unit. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter f (Frame and mullion assignment) and press ENTER. 
NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
5 Select the bay, column or nested grid to modify the frame and mullion assignment and press ENTER. Press CTRL to select multiple bays, columns or nested grids. 
The Modify Frame/Mullion Assignment worksheet displays. 

6 Select a frame definition for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
modify the frame of the select a frame definition and click OK. selected grid 
specify the location of the  select Top, Bottom, Left, Right for Frame  
frame on the selected  Location and click OK.  
grid  

create and assign a new click 
.
frame definition to the For more information, see Adding a Newselected grid 
Frame Assignment to a Curtain Wall on page 1475. 
7 Select the mullion definition for the selected grid: 
If you want to… Then… 
modify the mullion of the select the mullion definition and click OK. selected grid 
create and assign a new click 
and complete the Design Rulesmullion definition to the 
worksheet.
selected grid For more information, see Adding a New Mullion Assignment to a Curtain Wall Style 
on page 1479. 
8 Press ENTER. 
Overriding Curtain Wall Unit Divisions 
The grid of a curtain wall unit is made up of one or more divisions that define how the curtain wall unit is partitioned. Divisions can be horizontal or vertical and can be nested in each other. For detailed information on curtain wall unit divisions, see Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Unit Grids on page 1570. 
You can override a division in a curtain wall unit, thereby changing the grid of the curtain wall unit. 
Overriding number of Curtain Wall Unit cells 

Creating a Curtain Wall Unit Division Override 
Use this procedure to create a division override on a curtain wall unit. 
NOTE To exchange a curtain wall unit division, the new division definition must already be defined in the curtain wall unit style. For information on curtain wall unit divisions, see Defining Divisions for Curtain Wall Unit Grids on page 1570. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit for which you want to create a division override. 
2 Click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Division drop-down . Override Assignment. 
3 Select an edge of the curtain wall unit to determine if a horizontal 
or vertical division is overridden. For example, if you want to override the primary horizontal division, you could select the bottom horizontal frame of the curtain wall unit. 

TIP The Division Assignment Override dialog box shows you which grid type and which grid division you have selected, e.g., Selected Nested Grid: Secondary Grid, Division Element Definitions: Vertical 3 Cells. If you accidentally selected the wrong division, click Cancel and reselect the correct grid. 
4 Select the appropriate division override, and click OK. 5 Specify where you want to save the curtain wall unit override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
only on this specific curtain wall  no further steps are necessary. The  
unit  override is saved to the curtain wall  
unit. For information about how to  
remove an override from a curtain  
wall unit, see Removing Curtain  
Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654.  

to a curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
6 If you have chosen to save the override to a curtain wall unit style, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules 
drop-down . Save To Style, and decide to which curtain wall unit style you want to save the override. 
If you want to save the over-Then … ride … 
to the current curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Division Overrides to Style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Division Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other over­rides, such as a cell merge or a edge override, these check-boxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their checkboxes too. 
to a new curtain wall unit style 
select Transfer Division Overrides to Style, and click New. Enter a name for the new curtain wall unit style, and click OK. 
NOTE If you have created only a profile edge override, only the Transfer Division Overrides to Style checkbox is active. If you have also created other over­rides, such as a cell merge or a edge override, these check-boxes are available as well. If you also want to save these overrides to the style, select their checkboxes too. 
NOTE If you do not want to save the override back to a style at all, click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. The overrides still remain on the curtain wall unit, where they can be removed as described in Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides on page 1654, but they are not saved back to a curtain wall unit style. 
In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Unit Divisions 
Use this procedure to edit divisions using in-place editing with the Edit Grid grip. With in-place editing, you can edit the curtain wall unit directly and interactively in the drawing area and later save the changes to the curtain wall unit or curtain wall unit style. 
For more information, see Division of Curtain Wall Unit Grids on page 1570. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit on which you want to edit divisions with in-place editing. 
2 Specify the mode in which to edit the curtain wall unit: 
If you want to edit … Then … 
this instance of the curtain wall unit click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Transfer To Object. 
the curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall Unit tab . Modify panel . Design Rules drop-down . Revert To Style Design Rules. If this option is not available, the design rules are already style-based for the curtain wall unit. 
3 Click the Edit Grid grip. 4 Enter d (Division in place). 
Viewing edit in-place grips for a primary division 

NOTE You have entered the in-place editing session now. You can see this from the faded color of all objects in the drawing, as well as from the different grips at your disposal. Note that while you are in the in-place editing session, you have only limited editing access to other commands in the drawing. Before working on other objects, you should first end the in-place editing session. 
Viewing edit in-place grips for adding and removing bays 

5 Edit the division: 
If you want to … Then … 
add a bay to the grid click the Add Bay grip. 
remove a bay from the grid click the Remove Bay grip. 
change the start offset of the grid select the Start Offset grip and move it to the position. 
If you want to … Then … 
change the end offset of the grid select the End Offset grip and move it to the position. 
change the spacing of bays click the Auto Grid Bay Spacing grip and move it to the position. 
manually edit the grid click Edit In Place tab . Division 
panel . Convert To Manual .You can manually add and remove gridlines, change the offsets, and change the position of individual gridlines. 

use a worksheet to edit the cell di-click the Set Fixed Cell Dimension mensions Rules command grip, and edit the values in the worksheet. 
6 Save or discard changes to the curtain wall unit grid: 
If you want to exit the in-place Then … editing session … 
without saving your changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Cancel
 . 
after saving your changes click Edit in Place tab . Edits pan­el . Finish
 . 
7 In the Save Changes dialog box, specify to which division to save the changes: 
If you want to … Then … If you want to … Then … 
save the changes to the style in the  verify the current division is selected  
current curtain wall unit division  for Save Changes to Existing Divi­ 
sion, and click Save. The changes  
are made in the style and affect all  
curtain wall units of that style in the  
drawing.  

create an override to the style by saving the changes in a new curtain wall unit division click New, enter a name for the new division override, and click OK. Click Save. The changes are saved as an override to the style, and af­fect only the curtain wall units to which the override is applied. 
Removing Curtain Wall Unit Overrides 
Use this procedure to remove curtain wall unit overrides either from the curtain wall unit or the curtain wall unit style. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit: 
If you want to remove an Then … override … 
from a curtain wall unit double-click the curtain wall unit. In the Properties palette, expand Advanced, and click the Overrides worksheet. 
from the curtain wall unit style click Curtain Wall tab . General panel . Edit Style drop-down . Edit Style, then, click the Overrides tab. 
2 Select an override from the list and click Remove. 3 Click OK. 
Editing Curtain Wall Units 
Most relevant settings for a curtain wall unit are defined in the curtain wall unit style. These include divisions, infills, frames, and mullions. For information on modifying a curtain wall unit style, see Curtain Wall Unit Styles on page 1567. 
You can make other changes directly to individual curtain wall units. These changes affect only the curtain wall unit you select: 
¦ 
Dimensions of a curtain wall unit 

¦ 
Roof and floor line settings 

¦ 
Interference conditions 

¦ 
Cleanup settings 


Methods of Editing Curtain Wall Units 
AutoCAD Architecture offers several methods for editing curtain wall units: 
¦ 
You can directly edit curtain wall units using grips for dimensions, base height, location, and other physical characteristics. 

¦ 
You can directly edit curtain wall units using the Edit Grid grip for grid divisions, cells, frames, and mullions. For more information, see In-Place Editing of Curtain Wall Unit Divisions on page 1651, In-Place Editing of Edge Profiles for Curtain Wall Units on page 1643 and Overriding Curtain Wall Unit Infills on page 1626. 

¦ 
You can change curtain wall unit settings on the Properties palette. 

¦ 
You can select editing commands from the context menu for a selected curtain wall unit. 


Using Grips to Edit Curtain Wall Units 
There are many different curtain wall unit grips. The grips that appear in your drawing when you select a curtain wall unit are dependent upon the design rules of the curtain wall unit. For more information, see Curtain Wall Unit Styles on page 1567. 
Editing Curtain Wall Unit Dimensions 
Use this procedure to change the dimensions of a curtain wall unit. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit. 
2 Select the grip for the dimension you want to change. You can modify the dimensions of the height and length for a curtain wall unit. 
Viewing Curtain Wall Unit Lengthen and Base Height grips 

3 Enter a value for the dimension and press ENTER, or drag the grip until the dimension value you want is displayed. 
Changing the Location or Position of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the location or the position of a curtain wall unit with grips. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit. 
2 Select the appropriate grip to change the location of the curtain wall unit, its start point, or its end point. 
Viewing Curtain Wall Unit Start, End, Location, and Reverse Direction Grips 

In Model view, the Location grip has three possible edit modes: Edit Along XY Plane, Edit Along YZ Plane, and Edit Along ZX Plane. Press CTRL to cycle between modes until you are in the desired mode. The default edit mode is along the XY plane. In Plan view, the Location grip is restricted to movement in one plane. 
3 Move the curtain wall unit to the desired location and click once, 
or enter a value and press ENTER. If you want to enter a specific value for the second direction in any edit mode (for example, in the Y direction when editing along the XY plane), press TAB to cycle to the second direction. 
You can also lock the movement of the curtain wall unit along a specific direction. If you enter a value for either of the dimension directions in the current edit mode and then press TAB, the movement of the curtain wall unit is constrained to the second dimension direction. When editing along the XY plane, for example, you can enter a value for X dimension, and then press TAB. The X dimension is locked at that value, and movement of the curtain wall unit is constrained to the Y dimension direction. 
4 Right-click, and click Deselect All to turn off grips. 
Changing the Base Height of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the base height of a curtain wall unit. You can also change the base height on the Properties palette. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit. 
2 Select the Base Height grip, move the grip until the height value you want is displayed, and click once. As you move the grip, the original base height value is displayed 
in addition to the new base height and the difference between 
the two values. 

After selecting the grip, you can also enter a new value for the base height of the curtain wall unit. 
Changing the Length of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the length of a curtain wall unit. You can also change the length on the Properties palette. For more information, see Changing the Dimensions of a Curtain Wall Unit on page 1661. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit. 
2 Select the Lengthen grip, move the grip until the length value you want is displayed, and click once. 
As you move the grip, the original length value is displayed in addition to the new length and the difference between the two values. 

After selecting the grip, you can also enter a new value for the length of the curtain wall unit. 
Selecting a Different Curtain Wall Unit Style 
Use this procedure to select a different style for the curtain wall unit. 
1 Select the curtain wall unit for which you want to change the 
style. You can select multiple curtain wall units and change the style for all at the same time. 
2 On the Properties palette, scroll to the General subcategory. 
3 Select a different style. 

Matching the Properties of an Existing Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to apply the properties of a curtain wall unit tool to one or more existing curtain wall units. The properties include the curtain wall unit style and any other settings specified in the tool you select. 
1 Open the tool palette that you want to use. If necessary, scroll to display the tool that you want to use. 
2 Right-click a curtain wall unit tool, and click Apply Tool Properties to . Curtain Wall Unit. 
3 Select the curtain wall units, and press ENTER. The properties of the selected curtain wall units match the properties of the curtain wall unit tool. 
Changing the Dimensions of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the dimensions of a curtain wall unit. 
Dimension Description 
Height Height of the curtain wall unit from the baseline 
Length Length of a straight curtain wall unit from the start grip on the baseline to the end grip 
Start Miter Angle of all infills and horizontal edges (frame or mullion) at the start of the curtain wall unit. For more information about miter angles, see Mitering Curtain Walls on page 1536. 
End Miter Angle of all infills and horizontal edges (frame or mullion) at the end of the curtain wall unit. For more information about miter angles, see Mitering Curtain Walls on page 1536. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit. 2 Expand Dimensions. 3 Change the dimension. 
Specifying a Miter Angle for a Curtain Wall Unit Adjacent to Another Object 
Use this procedure to manually create a mitered corner between a curtain wall unit and another object, such as a standard wall or a mass element. For example, if your curtain wall unit connects with a standard wall that is at 60-degree angle from the curtain wall unit, you would specify the miter angle as 30. 
The miter angle applies to all infills and horizontal edges that are adjacent to the corner. Vertical edges are not affected. 
TIP To quickly identify the start and end of a curtain wall unit, select the curtain wall unit. The Reverse Direction grip points toward the end of the curtain wall unit. 
1 Select a curtain wall unit. 2 Expand Dimensions. 3 Miter the curtain wall unit on the start or the end point: 
If you want to miter the curtain Then … wall unit … 
at its start point enter an angle for Start Miter Angle, and press ENTER. 
at its end point enter an angle for End Miter Angle, and press ENTER. 
Changing the Location of a Freestanding Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to relocate a freestanding curtain wall unit by changing the coordinate values of its insertion point. The curtain wall unit also has an orientation with respect to the WCS or the current UCS. For example, if the top and bottom of the curtain wall unit are parallel to the XY plane, its normal is parallel to the Z axis. You can change the orientation of the curtain wall unit by aligning its normal with another axis. You can also rotate the curtain wall unit on its plane by changing the rotation angle. 
For information about the world coordinate system (WCS) and the user coordinate system (UCS), see “Use Coordinates and Coordinate Systems” in AutoCAD Help. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall unit you want to change. 2 Expand Location. 3 Click Additional information. 4 Specify the location of the curtain wall unit: 
If you want to … Then … 
relocate the curtain wall unit enter new coordinate values under Insertion Point. 
If you want to … Then … 
locate the curtain wall unit on the make the normal of the wall parallel XY plane to the Z axis: under Normal, enter 1 for Z, and enter 0 for X and Y. 
locate the curtain wall unit on the make the normal of the curtain wall 
YZ plane unit parallel to the X axis: under Normal, enter 1 for X and enter 0 for Y and Z. 
locate the curtain wall unit on the make the normal of the curtain wall 
XZ plane unit parallel to the Y axis: under Normal, enter 1 for Y, and enter 0 for X and Z. 
change the rotation of the curtain enter a new value for Rotation wall unit Angle. 
5 Click OK. 
Modifying the Position of Anchored Curtain Wall Units 
When you use a curtain wall unit as an infill for a curtain wall or a door/window assembly, the curtain wall unit is anchored to the other object. While anchored, the curtain wall unit moves when you move the curtain wall and is erased when you erase the curtain wall. 
You can change the orientation, alignment, or offset of the curtain wall unit without affecting the anchor. 
NOTE For information about releasing the curtain wall unit anchor so that it moves and erases independently from the curtain wall, see Releasing an Object Anchored in a Curtain Wall on page 1559. 
Changing the Orientation of an Anchored Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the orientation of an anchored curtain wall unit using grips. 
1 Select the anchored curtain wall unit. 
2 Click the appropriate Flip grip to change the X or Y direction of 
the object. You can also change the orientation of an object, including the Z direction, using the Anchor worksheet found on the object’s Properties palette. 
Changing the Alignment of an Anchored Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the alignment of a curtain wall unit anchored into a curtain wall. 
1 Double-click the anchored curtain wall unit. 2 Expand Location, and click Anchor. 3 Click Allow Variation from Infill Element Definition. 4 Select a new alignment for the curtain wall unit. 
For more information, see Specifying an Alignment for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill on page 1581. 
5 Click OK. 
Changing the Offset of an Anchored Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to change the offset of an anchored curtain wall unit. 
1 Double-click the anchored curtain wall unit. 2 Expand Location, and click Anchor. 3 Click Allow Variation from Infill Element Definition. 4 Specify a new offset for the curtain wall unit. 
For more information, see Specifying an Offset for a Curtain Wall Unit Infill on page 1582. 
5 Click OK. 
Specifying the Cut Plane Display of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to specify the properties of one or more cut planes for an individual curtain wall unit. Cut plane display properties apply only to display representations, such as Plan, that are used in the Top view (plan view) of a drawing. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall unit you want to change. 2 On the Properties palette, click the Display tab. 3 Under the General category, for Display component, verify that 
*NONE* is selected. 4 For Display controlled by, select This object. 
NOTE To apply your changes to all curtain wall units in the drawing, select Drawing default setting. To apply changes to all curtain wall units of this style, select Curtain Wall Unit Style:<style name>. For more information on styles, see Curtain Wall Unit Styles on page 1567. 
5 If necessary, expand Object Display Properties . Cut Plane. 
6 For Override cut plane, specify whether you want to override the global cut plane defined for the current display configuration. 7 If you selected Yes for Override cut plane, enter a value for Height 
to define the cut plane for this object. 8 For Use cut plane of containing object when anchored, specify whether you want the containing object’s cut plane to be used when the curtain wall unit is anchored to that object. 
9 To define additional cut planes for the curtain wall unit, click Manual cut planes. 

10 On the Manual Above and Below Cut Plane Heights worksheet, click Add, and under Cut Plane, enter the height of the new cut plane. 
If you add a cut plane … Then … 
at a height that is lower than the objects are displayed using the 
current cut plane Layer/Color/Linetype properties specified for the Below Cut Plane component of the object. 
at a height that is higher than the objects are displayed using the 
current cut plane Layer/Color/Linetype properties specified for the Above Cut Plane component of the object. 
You can click Remove to delete a cut plane that you added. 
You can also access and modify these same cut plane settings through the curtain wall unit’s context menu, as follows 
1 Select the curtain wall unit you want to change, right-click, and click Edit Object Display. 
2 In the Object Display dialog, click the Display Properties tab. The current display representation is displayed in bold. 
3 Select the display representation where you want the changes to appear, and select Object Override. If Object Override is already 
selected, click 
at the upper-right corner of the tab. 
4 In the Display Properties dialog, click the Cut Plane tab, and then change the settings as needed. 
5 Click OK twice. 
Specifying the Display of Other Characteristics of a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to specify other display properties for a curtain wall unit, including cell marker size, the display of miters at frame corners, and the display of custom components. If you are going to use custom graphics for a component, draw the component and save it as a block before you start this procedure. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall unit. 2 Click the Display tab. 3 Under the General category, for Display component, verify that 
*NONE* is selected. 4 For Display controlled by, select This object. 
NOTE To apply your changes to all curtain wall units in the drawing, select Drawing default setting. To apply changes to all curtain wall units of this style, select Curtain Wall Unit Style:<style name>. For more information on styles, see Curtain Wall Styles on page 1422. 
5 If necessary, expand Object Display Properties . Advanced. 
6 If you want to change the size of the markers used for cells in the curtain wall grid, click Cell marker size, and enter a new value. 
(Alternatively, you can click 
and specify 2 points in the drawing area to set the new size.) 
7 Optionally, for Show mitres at frame corners, select Yes/No. 
8 If you want to add or edit a custom component, for Custom model components (or Custom plan components, if in a plan view), 
click 
. 9 On the Custom Model (or Plan) Components worksheet, click Add, or select one of the components in the list, and click Edit. 10 On the Custom Display Component worksheet, for Component Type, select Infill, Frame, or Mullion. 11 Enter a name for Component Name, or click Select Component, and in the Select <component type> Definition dialog, select a 
definition, and click OK. 12 Select Draw Custom Graphics. 13 Specify the display of the element: 
If you want to … Then … 
display the block instead of the as-select Replace Graphics. sociated curtain wall unit element 
superimpose the block over the clear Replace Graphics. curtain wall unit element so that both are displayed 
14 Click Select Block, select the custom block that you created, and click OK. 
15 Specify further settings for the custom display block: 
If you want to … Then … 
scale the block to fit a particular di-select Width, Height, or Depth. To mension prevent the block from losing its proportions, select Lock XY Ratio. 
specify how the block is inserted specify an insertion point on the X, into the grid in the X, Y, and Z dir-Y, and Z planes. ections 
mirror the block determine if it should mirror in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
offset the block from the grid specify the offset in the X, Y, or Z direction. 
16 Click OK twice. 
Attaching Hyperlinks, Notes, or Files to a Curtain Wall Unit 
Use this procedure to enter notes and attach reference files to a curtain wall unit. You can also edit notes and edit or detach reference files from a curtain wall unit. 
1 Double-click the curtain wall unit. 2 On the Properties palette, click the Extended Data tab. 3 To add a hyperlink, click the setting for Hyperlink, and specify 
the link. 4 To add a note, click the setting for Notes, and enter the text. 5 Click OK. 6 Click under Reference documents, and attach, edit, or detach a 
reference file: 
If you want to … Then … 
attach a reference file click Add, select a file, and click Open. 
edit the description of a reference select the file, and click the descrip­file tion. Enter the new text, and press ENTER. 
edit a reference file double-click the reference file name to start its application. 
detach a reference file select the file name, and click De­lete. 
7 Click OK twice. 
Facet Deviation 
The smoothness (tesselation) of curved curtain wall edges is controlled by the FACETDEV variable. Specify the facet deviation to set the number of facets to display on curved objects. This must be set before converting a polyline to a curtain wall. 
The facet deviation is available only on the command line by typing -AecFacetDev. 
The number you set as the facet deviation defines the maximum distance from the chord to the arc, the chord being an edge that is created from faceting the curve, to the true mathematical arc. The facet deviation has a range of greater than zero (0) and no upper limit. 
The minimum number of facets is 8. For example, when you create a cylinder mass element with a 1' radius, and specify a FACETDEV value of 1', the cylinder has 8 faces. 
Door and Window Assemblies 
22 
Door and window assemblies provide a mechanism for creating door and window compounds for inserting in walls and curtain walls. 
Door and Window Assemblies 
Door/window assemblies provide a grid or framework for inserting objects such as windows and doors. With this framework, you can create complex window and door assemblies, which can then be inserted in standard walls or used as repeated elements in curtain walls. 

Door/Window Assembly Grids 
Door/window assemblies are made up of 1 or more grids. Each grid has either a horizontal division or a vertical division, but you can nest the grids to create a variety of patterns from simple to complex. 

TIP Using a door/window assembly in a curtain wall can help you avoid the complexities of too many nested grids in the curtain wall. 
Elements of Grids 
Grids are the foundation of curtain walls, curtain wall units, and door/window assemblies. Every grid has four element types: 
¦ 
Divisions: Define the direction of the grid (horizontal or vertical) and the number of cells 

¦ 
Cell Infills: Contain another grid, a panel infill, or an object such as a window or a door 

¦ 
Frames: Define the edge around the outside of the primary grid and nested grids 

¦ 
Mullions: Define the edges between the cells 


NOTE Division is an abstract element, in contrast to the other three element types that represent physical elements of the door/window assembly. 
Each element type is assigned a default definition that describes what elements of that type look like. 
Element type Default definitions 
Divisions Vertical divisions with a fixed cell dimension of 3' 
Cell Infills Cells containing simple panels with a 2" thickness 
Frames Outer edges of grid 3" wide and 3" deep 
Mullions Edges between cells 1" wide and 3" deep 

You can create new element definitions and assign those definitions within the door/window assembly. For example, you can create multiple infill definitions and then assign different infills to specific cells in the grid. Likewise, you can create multiple frame definitions and then assign a different definition to each frame edge (top, bottom, left, right). This is also true for mullion definitions. 

Experimenting with Door/Window Assembly Designs 
The templates provided with AutoCAD Architecture offer door/window assembly styles. Looking at these styles and experimenting with them makes it easier to understand door/window assembly behavior and create your own door/window assembly designs. 

For more information about element definitions and assignments, see Creating Element Definitions for a Door and Window Assembly Style on page 1691 and Assigning Definitions to Door and Window Assembly Elements on page 1729. 
Door and Window Assembly Endcaps 
Door and window assemblies that are anchored in a wall can have endcap styles applied to them. The endcap shapes for wall openings are defined in the wall style and are a property of the wall. For information on setting an opening endcap style in a wall, see Working with Wall Endcaps and Opening Endcaps on page 1359. 
Using Door and Window Assembly Tools to Create Door and Window Assemblies 
Door/window assemblies are planar and defined by an insertion point, as opposed to curtain walls, which have a baseline that can be curved or straight. You can create a door/window assembly based on a 2D layout grid or on a combination of lines, arcs, and circles. 
To create a door/window assembly for use in a standard wall, you draw the wall first. You can then insert the door/window assembly and modify the door/window assembly elements as needed. 
To create a door/window assembly for use in a curtain wall, insert the door/window assembly in space. Modify the element definitions and assignments as needed. Save your changes as a new door/window assembly style, and then assign that style to cells in your curtain wall grid. For more information, see Inserting an Object into a Curtain Wall Cell on page 1471. 
Tool palettes provided with AutoCAD Architecture let you quickly place door/window assemblies by selecting a door/window assembly tool with a specific door/window assembly style and other predefined properties. When you place door/window assemblies using door/window assembly tools, you can use the default settings of the tool, or you can change settings for the door/window assembly properties. You can also use door/window assembly tools to convert linework to door/window assemblies and to apply the settings of a door/window assembly tool to existing door/window assemblies. 

The following palettes contain one or more door/window assembly tools: 
Tool Palette Door/Window Assembly Tools 
Design palette in the Sample Palette cata-Standard door/window assembly style and log in the Content Browser default settings for other door/window as­sembly properties 
Design Tool Catalog . Doors and Win-a large number of door and window as­dows . Door and Window Assemblies in sembly styles for many design uses the Content Browser 
custom tool palettes created by your CAD door/window assembly styles and proper-manager ties that your CAD manager customized for your projects or office standards 
When you place door/window assemblies using door/window assembly tools, you can use the default settings of the tool, or you can change settings for any door/window assembly properties that are not controlled by the style. 



